So, we talked 3 years ago. I'm curious
in your view, what has been the biggest
update of the last 3 years? What has
been the biggest difference between what
it felt like last 3 years versus now?
>> Yeah, I would say actually the
underlying technology, like the
exponential of the technology, has has
gone, broadly speaking, I would say
about about as I expected it to go. I
mean, there's like plus or minus, you
know, a couple. There's plus or minus a
year or two here, there's plus or minus
a year or two there. I don't know that I
would predict the specific direction of
code. Um, but but actually when I look
at the exponential, it it is roughly
what I expected in terms of the march of
the models from like, you know, smart
high school student to smart college
student to like, you know, beginning to
do PhD and professional stuff and in the
case of code reaching beyond that. So,
you know, the frontier is a little bit
uneven. It's roughly what I expected. I
will tell you though what the most
surprising thing has been. The most
surprising thing has been the lack of
public recognition of how close we are
to the end of the exponential. To me, it
is absolutely wild that, you know, you
have
people, you know, within the bubble and
outside the bubble, you know, but but
you have people talking about these
these, you know, just the same tired old
hot button political issues and like,
you know, or or or around us for like
near the end of the exponential. I I I
want to understand what
what that exponential looks like right
now because the first question I asked
you when we recorded 3 years ago was,
you know, what's up with scaling? How
does it work? Um, and I have a similar
question now, but I feel like it's a
more complicated question because at
least from the public's point of view,
yes, 3 years ago there were these, you
know, well-known public trends where
across many orders of magnitude of
compute you could see how the loss
improves. And now we have RL scaling and
there's no publicly known scaling law
for it. It's not even clear what exactly
the story is of is it supposed to be
teaching the model skills? Is it
supposed to be teaching meta learning?
Um, what is the scaling hypothesis at
this point?
>> Yeah, so so I have actually the same
hypothesis that I had even all the way
back in 2017. So, in 2017, I think I
talked about it last time, but I wrote a
doc called the the big blob of compute
hypothesis. And and and you know, it it
wasn't about the scaling of language
models in particular. When I when I
wrote it, GPT-1 had had just come out,
right? So, that was, you know, one among
many things, right? There was
back in those days there was robotics,
people trying to work on reasoning as a
separate thing from language models,
there was scaling of the kind of RL that
happened that you know, kind of happened
in AlphaGo, and you know, that that
happened at Dota at OpenAI, and you
know,
people remember StarCraft at DeepMind,
you know, AlphaStar. Um, so uh it was
written as a more general document. And
and the specific thing I said was the
following, that and you know, it's it's
very, you know, Rich Sutton put out the
bit bitter lesson a couple years later,
um uh but you know, the the hypothesis
is basically the same. So, so what it
says is all the cleverness, all the
techniques, all all the kind of we need
a new method to to do something like
that doesn't matter very much. There
only a few things that matter, and I
think I listed seven of them. One is
like how much raw compute you have. The
other is the quantity of data that you
have. Then the third is kind of the
quality and distribution of data, right?
It needs to be a broad broad
distribution of data. The fourth is I
think how long you train for. Um, the
fifth is you need an objective function
that can scale to the moon. So, the
pre-training objective function is one
such objective function, right? An
another objective function is, you know,
the the kind of RL objective function
that says like you have a goal, you're
going to go out and reach the goal.
Within that, of course, there's
objective rewards like, you know, like
you see in math and coding, and there's
more subjective rewards like you see in
RL from human feedback or kind of higher
order higher order versions of that. And
and then the sixth and seventh were
things around kind of like normalization
or conditioning. Like you know, just
getting the numerical stability so that
kind of the big blob of compute flows in
this laminar way instead of instead of
running into problems. So that was the
hypothesis and it's a hypothesis I still
hold. I I don't think I've seen very
much that is not in line with that
hypothesis. And so the pre-trained
scaling laws were one example of what of
of of of kind of what we see there. And
indeed those have continued going. Like
you know, you know, I think I think now
it's been it's been widely reported like
you know, we feel good about
pre-training. Like pre-training is
continuing to give us gains. What has
changed is that now we're also seen the
same thing for RL, right? So we're
seeing a pre-training phase and then
we're seeing like an RL phase on top of
that. Um
And with RL it's it's actually just the
same like you know, even even other
companies have have published um
uh um like um you know, in some of their
in some of their releases have published
things that say, "Look, you know, we
trained the model on math contests, you
know, AIME or or the kind of other
things and you know, how well the how
well the model does is log linear and
how long we've trained it. And we see
that as well and it's not just math
contest. It's a wide variety of RL
tasks." And so we're seeing the same
scaling in RL that we saw for
pre-training. Um You mentioned Rich
Richard Sutton and the bitter lesson.
Yeah. I interviewed him uh last year and
he is actually very non LLM pilled. And
if I'm if I
I don't know if this is disrespectful,
but one way to paraphrase
this objection is something like, "Look,
something which possesses the true core
of human learning will not require
all these billions of dollars of data
and compute and these bespoke
environments to learn how to use Excel
or how does an account you know how to
how to use PowerPoint how to navigate a
web browser and the fact that we have to
build in these skills using these RL
environments hints that we're actually
lacking this
core human learning algorithm
and so we're scaling the wrong thing and
so yeah that that is the reason question
why are we doing all this RL scaling if
we do think there's something that's
going to be human-like in its ability to
learn on the fly. Yeah, yeah. So I think
I think this kind of puts together
several things that should be kind of
thought of thought of differently. I
think there is a genuine puzzle here but
it it may not matter.
In fact I would guess it probably it
probably doesn't matter. So
let's take the RL out of it for a second
cuz I actually think RL and it's a red
herring to say that RL is any different
from pre-training in this matter.
So if we if we look at pre-training and
scaling
it it was very interesting back in you
know 2017 when Alec Radford was doing
GPT-1. If you look at the models before
GPT-1 they were trained on these data
sets that didn't represent a wide you
know distribution of text right you had
like you know these very standard you
know kind of language modeling
benchmarks and GPT-1 itself was trained
on a bunch of I think it was fan fiction
actually
but you know it was it was like literary
and it's like literary text which is a
very small fraction of the text that you
get and what we found with that you know
and in those days it was like a billion
words or something so small data sets
and represented a pretty narrow
distribution right like a narrow
distribution of kind of what what you
can see what you can see in the world
and it didn't generalize well if you did
better on
you know the the
you know I I I forgot what what some
some kind of fan fiction corpus. Um, it
wouldn't generalize that well to kind of
the other task. You know, we had all
these measures of like, you know, how
well does it how well does a model do at
predicting all of these other kinds of
tasks? You really didn't see the
generalization. It was only when you
trained over all the tasks on the you
know, the internet. When you when you
kind of did a general internet scrape,
right? From something like, you know,
common crawl or scraping links on
Reddit, which is what we did for GPT-2.
It's only when you do that that you kind
of started to get generalization. Um,
and I think we're seeing the same thing
on RL, that we're starting with first
very simple RL tasks like training on
math competitions, then we're kind of
moving to, you know, kind of broader
broader training that involves things
like code as a task, and now we're
moving to do kind of many many other
tasks. And then I think we're going to
increasingly get generalization. So,
that that kind of takes out the RL
versus the pre-training side of it. But,
I think there is a puzzle here either
way, which is that on pre-training, when
we train the model on pre-training, you
know, we we use like trillions of
tokens, right? And and humans don't see
trillions of words. So, there is an
actual sample efficiency difference
here. There there is actually something
different that's that's happening here,
which is that the models start from
scratch, and you know, they have to get
much more much more training. But, we
also see that once they're trained, if
we give them a long context length. The
only thing a long context length is like
inference, but if we give them like a
context length of a million, they're
very good at learning and adapting
within that context length. And and so,
I don't know the full answer to this,
but but I think there's something going
on that pre-training it's it's not like
the process of humans learning. It's
somewhere between the process of humans
learning and the process of human
evolution. It's like it's somewhere
between like we get many of our priors
from evolution. Our brain isn't just a
blank slate, right? Whole books have
been written about I think the language
models, they're much more blank slates.
They literally start as like random
weights. Whereas the human brain starts
with all these regions, it's connected
to all these inputs and outputs.
Um and and so maybe we should think of
pre-training and for that matter RL as
well as as being something that exists
in the middle space between human
evolution and you know, kind of human on
on the spot learning. And as the
in-context learning that the models do
as as something between long-term human
learning and short-term human learning.
So, you know, there there's this
hierarchy of like there's evolution,
there's long-term learning, there's
short-term learning, and there's just
human reaction. And
the LLM phases exist along this
spectrum, but not necessarily exactly at
the same points. That there's no analog
to some of the human modes of learning.
The LLMs are kind of falling between the
points. Does that make sense?
>> Um yes, although some things are still a
bit confusing. For example, if the
analogy is that this is like evolution,
so it's fine that it's not that sample
efficient, then like well,
if we're going to get the kind of super
sample efficient agent from in-context
learning, why are we bothering to build
in, you know, there's RL environment
companies which are
It seems like what they're doing is
they're teaching it how to use this API,
how to use Slack, how to use whatever.
It's confusing to me why there's so much
emphasis on that if the kind of agent
that can just learn on the fly is
emerging or is going to soon emerge or
has already emerged.
>> Yeah, yeah. So, I I mean, I can't speak
for the emphasis of anyone else. I can I
can only talk about how we how we think
about it. I think the way we think about
it is
the goal is not to teach the model every
possible skill within RL just as we
don't do that within pre-training,
right? Within pre-training, we're not
trying to expose the model to, you know,
every every possible you know, way that
words could be put together, right? You
know, we're it's it's rather that the
model trains on a lot of things and then
and then it reaches generalization
across pre-training, right? That was
that was the transition from GPT-1 to
GPT-2 that I saw up close, which is
like, you know, the the model reaches a
point, you know, I I I
I like had these moments where I was
like, "Oh, yeah, you just give the model
like you just give the model a list of
numbers that's like, you know, um you
know, this is the cost of the house,
this is the square feet of the house."
And the model completes the pattern and
does linear regression. Like, not great,
but it does it, but it's never seen that
exact thing before. And and so, to you
know, to to the extent that we are
building these RL environments, the the
goal is is very similar to what is be
you know, to what was done 5 or 10 years
ago with pre-training. With we're trying
to get a whole we're trying to get a
whole bunch of data not because we want
to cover
a specific document or a specific skill,
but because we want to generalize. I
mean,
I I think the
framework you're laying down obviously
makes sense. Like, we're making progress
towards AGI. I think the crux is
something like
nobody at this point disagrees that
we're going to achieve AGI in the
century. And the crux is you say we're
hitting the end of the exponential um
and somebody else looks at this and
says, "Oh, yeah, we've we're making
progress. We've been making progress
since 2012 and then 2035 we'll have a
human-like AGI." And so, I want to
understand what it is that you're seeing
which makes you think um
yeah, obviously we're seeing the kinds
of things that evolution did or that
human within human lifetime learning is
like in the these models. And why think
that it's 1 year away and not 10 years
away?
>> I I I actually think of it as like two
there's kind of two cases to be made
here or like two two claims you could
make, one of which is like stronger and
the other of which is weaker. So, I
think starting starting with the weaker
claim, you know, when when I first saw
the scaling back in like, you know,
2019,
you know, I wasn't sure. You know, this
was the the whole this was kind of a
50/50 thing, right? I thought I saw
something that was, you know, and and
and my claim was this is much more
likely than anyone thinks it is. Like,
this is wild. No one else would even
consider this. Maybe there's a 50%
chance this happens. Um
on the basic hypothesis of you know, as
you put it, within 10 years we'll get
to, you know,
you know, what I call kind of country of
geniuses in a data center. I'm at like
90% on that. Um and it's hard to go much
higher than 90% cuz the world is so
unpredictable. Um
maybe the irreducible uncertainty would
be if we were at 95% where you get to
things like, I don't know, may maybe
multiple you know, multiple companies
have, you know, kind of internal turmoil
and nothing happens and then Taiwan gets
invaded and like all the all the fabs
get blown up by missiles and and, you
know, and then now you were drinking the
Astoria. Yeah.
You know, just you could construct a a
scenario where there's like a 5% chance
that it it you know, or you know, you
you can construct a 5% world where like
things things get delayed for for for
for for for for 10 years. That's maybe
5%. There's another 5% which is that I'm
very confident on tasks that can be
verified. So, I think I think with
coding, I'm just except for that
irreducible uncertainty, there's just
there's I mean, I think we'll be there
in one or two years. There's no way we
will not be there there in 10 years in
terms of being able to do it end-to-end
coding. My one little bit, the one
little bit of of fundamental uncertainty
even on long time scales is this thing
about tasks that aren't verifiable.
Like, planning a mission to Mars, like,
uh you know, doing some fundamental
scientific discovery like like CRISPR,
like, you know, writing a writing a
novel.
Hard to hard to verify those tasks. I am
almost certain that we have a reliable
path to get there, but like
if there was a little bit uncertainty,
it's there. So so so so So on the 10
years, I'm like, you know, 90% which is
about as certain as you can be. Like I
think it's I think it's crazy
to say that this won't happen by by by
2035. Like in some sane world it would
be outside the mainstream. But but the
emphasis on verification hints to me as
a lack of a lack of
belief that these models will
generalize. If you think about humans,
yes. We are good at things that both of
which we get verifiable reward and
things which we don't. You're like you
have to discard
>> We we No no no this is this is why I'm
almost sure. We already see substantial
generalization from things that that
verify to things that don't verify.
We're already seeing that.
>> Right. But but it seems like you were
emphasizing this as a spectrum which
will
uh split apart which domains you see
more progress in. And I'm like, but that
doesn't seem like how humans get better.
>> in which we don't make it or or or the
world in which we don't get there is the
world in which we do we do all the
things that are that are verifiable and
then they like, you know, many of them
generalize, but but we kind of don't get
fully there. We don't we don't we don't
fully, you know, we don't fully color in
this side of the box. It's it's it's not
a it's not a binary thing. But it also
seems to me even if even if in the world
where generalization is weak when you
only see it in verifiable domains, it's
not clear to me in such a world you
could automate software engineering
because software like in some sense you
are  a software engineer. But you
part of being a software engineer for
you involves writing these like long
memos about your grand vision about
different things. And so
>> think that's part of the job of SWE.
That's part that's part of the job of
the company. But I do think SWE involves
like design documents and other things
like that. Um which by the way that the
models are not bad. They're already
pretty good at writing comments. And so
with with again I again I'm making like
much weaker claims here than I believe
to like, you know, to to to to to kind
of set up a
you know, to to distinguish between two
things. Like, we're we're already almost
there for software engineers. We are
already almost there. By by what metric?
There's one metric which is like how
many lines of code are written by AI?
And if you use if you consider other
productivity improvements in the course
of the history of it software
engineering, compilers write all the
lines of software. And but we there's a
difference between how many lines are
written and how big the productivity
improvement is. Oh, yeah. So and then
like
We're almost there meaning like the how
big is the productivity improvement and
not just how many lines are written.
>> Yeah, yeah. So so I actually
I actually I actually agree with you on
this. So I I've made this series of
predictions on um code in software
engineering. And and and I think people
have repeatedly kind of misunderstood
them. So so let me let me let me let me
let me lay out the spectrum, right? Like
I think it was like, you know, like, you
know, eight or nine months ago or
something I said, you know, the AI model
will be writing 90 90% of the lines of
code in like, you know, three to six
months. Which which happened at least at
some places, right? Happened happened at
Anthropic, happened with many people
downstream using our models. But but
that's actually a very weak criterion,
right? People thought I was saying like
we won't need 90% of the software
engineers. Those things are worlds
apart, right? Like I would put the
spectrum as 90% of code is written by
the model,
100% of code is written by the model.
And that's a big difference in
productivity.
90% of the end-to-end SWE tasks, right?
Including things like compiling,
including things like setting up
clusters and environments, testing
features, writing memos. 90% of the SWE
tasks are written by the models. 100% of
today's SWE tasks are are are written by
the models. And and even when when when
that happens, it doesn't mean software
engineers are out of a job. Like there's
like new higher-level things they can do
where they can they can manage. And then
there's a further down the spectrum like
you know, there's 90% less demand for
sweets, which I think will happen, but
like this is this this is a spectrum.
And you know, I I wrote about it in in
the adolescence of technology, where I
went through this kind of spectrum with
farming. Um
And so, I I actually totally agree with
you on that. It's just these are very
different benchmarks from each other,
but we're proceeding through them super
fast. It seems like in part of your
vision is like going from 90 to 100.
Um first it's going to happen fast, and
two, that somehow that leads to huge
productivity improvements. Um whereas
when I notice even in greenfield
projects that people start with Claude
code or something, people report
starting a lot of projects, and I'm
like, do we see in the world out there
a renaissance of software, all these new
features that wouldn't exist otherwise?
And at least so far, it doesn't seem
like we see that. And so, that does make
me wonder, even if even if like I never
had to intervene on Claude code, um
there is this thing like there's this
the world is complicated, jobs are
complicated, and
closing the loop on self-contained
systems, whether I'm just writing
software or something, how much sort of
how much broader gains we would see just
from that. And so, maybe that makes us
this should dilute our estimation of the
country of geniuses.
>> well, I actually I I like I like
simultaneously
I simultaneously agree with you, agree
that it's a reason why these things
don't happen instantly, but at the same
time, I think the the the effect is
going to be very fast. So, like, I don't
know, you could have these two poles,
right? One is like, um you know, AI is
like, you know, it's not going to make
progress, it's slow, like it's going to
take, you know, kind of forever to
diffuse within the economy, right?
Economic diffusion has become one of
these buzzwords that's like a reason why
we're not going to make AI progress, or
why AI progress doesn't matter. And And
you know, the other axis is like we'll
get recursive self-improvement, you
know, the whole thing, and you know,
can't you just draw an exponential line
on the on the curve? You know, it's it's
we're going to have, you know, Dyson
spheres around the sun and like, you
know,
you know,
so many nanoseconds after you know,
after after we get recurse. I mean, I'm
completely caricaturing the view here,
but like, you know, there there there
are these two extremes, but what we've
seen from from the beginning, you know,
at least if you look within Anthropic,
there's this bizarre 10x per year growth
in revenue that we've seen. Right? So,
you know, in 2023, it was like 0 to 100
million. 2024, it was 100 million to a
billion. 2025, it was a billion to like
9 or 10 billion. And then You guys
should have just bought like a billion
dollars worth of your own product so you
could just like kind of clean 10
billion.
>> [laughter]
>> And and the first month of this year,
like that that exponential is you would
think it would slow down, but it would
like, you know, we we added another few
billion to like, you know, to to to we
added another few billion to revenue in
January. And and so, you know, obviously
that curve can't go on forever, right?
You know, the GDP is only so large. I
don't you know, I I would even guess
that it bends that it bends bends
somewhat this year. But like, that is
like a fast curve, right? That's like a
that's like a really fast curve, and I
would bet it stays pretty fast even as
the scale goes to the entire economy. So
like, I I think we should be thinking
about this middle world where things are
like extremely fast, but not instant,
where they take time because of economic
diffusion, because of the need to close
the loop, because, you know, it's like
this fiddly, oh man, I have to do change
management within my enterprise, you
know, I have to like, you know,
you know, I I I like I set this up, but
but, you know, I have to change the
security permissions on this in order to
make it actually work. Or, you know, I
had this like old piece of software
that, you know, that like, you know,
checks the model before it's compiled
and and and like released, and I have to
rewrite it and yes the model can do that
but I have to tell the model to do that
and it has to it has to take time to do
that and and and so I think everything
we've seen so far is is compatible with
the idea that there's one fast
exponential that's the the capability of
the model and then there's another fast
exponential that's downstream of that
which is the diffusion of the model into
the economy. Not instant.
Not slow. Much faster than any previous
technology but it has its limits. And
and and and this is what we you know
when I when I look inside Anthropic,
when I look at our customers, fast
adoption but not infinitely fast. Um Can
I try a hot take on you? Yeah. I feel
like diffusion is cope that people use
to say when it's like
if the model isn't able to do something,
they're like oh but the diffu- it's like
a diffusion issue. But then you should
use the comparison to humans. You would
think that the inherent advantages that
EIs have would make diffusion a much
easier problem for new EIs getting on
boarded than new humans getting on
boarded. So an AI can read your entire
Slack and your Drive in minutes. They
can share all the knowledge that the
other copy other copies of the same
instance have. You don't have this
adverse selection problem when you're
hiring EIs cuz you can just hire copies
of a vetted AI model. Um
hiring a human is like so much more
hassle and people hire humans all the
time, right? We pay humans upwards of 50
trillion dollars in wages because
they're useful uh even though it's like
in principle it would be much easier to
integrate EIs into the economy than it
is to hire humans. So I think like the
diffusion I feel like doesn't really
explain
>> I think diffusion is very real and and
and and and doesn't have to you know
doesn't exclusively have to do with
limitation limitation limitations on the
AI models. Like again, there are people
who use diffusion to to you know as kind
of a buzzword to say this isn't a big
deal. I'm not talking about that. I'm
not talking about you know AI will
diffuse at the speed that previous I
think AI will diffuse much faster than
previous technologies have but but not
infinitely fast. So I'll I'll just give
an example of this, right? Like there's
like Claude Code. Like Claude Code is
extremely easy to set up.
You know, if you're a developer, you can
kind of just start using Claude Code.
There is no reason why a developer at a
large enterprise should not be adopting
Claude Code as quickly as you know,
individual developer or developer at a
startup. And we do everything we can to
promote it, right? We sell
we sell Claude Code to enterprises and
big enterprises like you know, big big
financial companies, big pharmaceutical
companies, all of them, they're adopting
Claude Code much faster than enterprises
typically adopt new technology, right?
But but again, it like it it it it it it
it takes time. Like any given feature or
any given product like Claude Code or
like Co-work will get adopted by the you
know, the individual developers who are
on Twitter all the time, by the like
Series A startups
many months faster than than you know,
than they will get adopted by like you
know,
a like large enterprise that does food
sales.
There are a number of factors like you
have to go through legal. You have to
provision it for everyone. It has to you
know, like it has to pass security and
compliance. The leaders of the company
who are further away from the AI
revolution, you know, are are
forward-looking but they have to say,
"Oh, it makes sense for us to spend 50
million. This is what this Claude Code
thing is. This is why it helps our
company. This is why it makes us more
productive." And then they have to
explain to the people two levels below
and they have to say, "Okay, we have
3,000 developers. Like here's how we're
going to roll it out to our developers."
And we have conversations like this
every day. Like you know, we are doing
everything we can to make Anthropic's
revenue grow 20 or 30x a year instead of
10x a year. Um, you know, and and and
again, you know, many enterprises are
just saying, "This is so productive.
Like, you know, we're going to take
shortcuts in our usual procurement
process, right?" They're moving much
faster than, you know, when we tried to
sell them just the ordinary API, which
many of them use, but Claude code is a
more compelling product. Um, but it's
not an infinitely compelling product,
and I don't think even AGI or powerful
AI or country of geniuses in a data
center will be an infinitely compelling
product. It will be a compelling product
enough maybe to get three or five or 10x
a year growth even when you're in the
hundreds of billions of dollars, which
is extremely hard to do and has never
been done in history before, but not
infinitely fast.
>> I I I buy that it would be a slight
slowdown. And maybe this is not your
claim, but sometimes people talk about
this like, "Oh, the capabilities are
there, but because of the fusion, um,
otherwise, like, we're basically at AGI
and then
>> I I I I don't believe we're basically at
AGI. I think if you had the country of
geniuses in a data center, if your
company didn't adopt the country of
geniuses in a data center,
>> in a data center, we would know it. We
would know everyone in this room would
know it. Everyone
in Washington would know it. Like, you
know,
people in rural rural parts of might not
know it. But but but like,
we would know it. I We don't have that
now. That is very clear. As Dario was
hinting at, to get generalization, you
need to train across a wide variety of
realistic tasks and environments.
[music] For example, with a sales agent,
the hardest part isn't teaching it to
mash buttons in a specific database in
Salesforce. It's training the agent's
judgment across ambiguous situations.
How do you sort through a database with
thousands of leads to figure out which
ones are hot? How do you actually reach
out? What do you do when you get
ghosted? When an AI lab wanted to train
a sales agent, Labelbox brought in
dozens of Fortune 500 sales people to
build a bunch of different RL
environments. They created thousands of
scenarios where the sales agent had to
engage with the potential customer,
which was role-played by a second AI.
Labelbox made sure that this customer AI
had a few different personas, because
when you cold call, you have no idea
who's going to be on the other end. You
need to be able to deal with a whole
range of possibilities. Labelbox's sales
experts monitored these conversations
turn by turn, [music]
tweaking the role-playing agent to
ensure they did the kinds of things an
actual customer would do. Labelbox could
iterate faster than anybody else in the
industry. This is super important
because RL is an empirical science.
[music] It's not a software problem.
Labelbox has a bunch of tools for
monitoring agent performance in real
time. This lets their experts keep
coming up with tasks, so that the model
stays in the right distribution of
difficulty and [music] gets the optimal
reward signal during training. Labelbox
can do this sort of thing in almost
every domain. They've got head fund
managers, radiologists, even airline
pilots. So, whatever you're working on,
Labelbox [music] can help. Learn more at
labelbox.com/vorkash.
Coming back to concrete predictions,
because I think because there's so many
different things to disambiguate, it can
be easy to talk past each other when
we're talking about capabilities. So,
for example, when I interviewed you 3
years ago, I asked for a prediction
about what we should expect 3 years from
now. I think
you were right in what you said.
We should expect systems which, if you
talk to them for the course of an hour,
it's hard to tell them apart from a
generally well-educated human. Yes. I
think you were right about that. And I
think spiritually I feel unsatisfied
because my internal expectation was was
that such a system could automate large
parts of white-collar work. And so, it
might be more productive to talk about
the actual end capabilities you want
such a system So, so I will I will I
will basically tell you what what, you
know, where where where I think we are.
So, but let me let me ask you a very
specific question so that we can
figure out exactly what kinds of
capabilities we should expect soon. So,
maybe I'll ask about it in the context
of a job I understand well, not because
it's the most relevant job, but um just
cuz I can evaluate the claims about it.
Um
take video editors, right? I video
editors, and part of their
job involves learning about our
audience's preferences, learning about
my preferences and taste and the
different trade-offs we have, and how
just over the course of many months
building up this understanding of
context. And so, the skill and ability
they have 6 months into the job, a model
that can pick up that skill on the job,
on the fly.
When should we expect such an AI system?
Yeah, so I guess what you're talking
about is like, you know, we've we're
we're doing this interview for 3 hours,
and then like, you know, someone's going
to come in, someone's going to edit it,
they're going to be like, oh, you know,
you know, I don't know, Dario like, you
know, scratched his head, and you know,
we could we could edit that out, and you
know,
>> Magnify that.
>> this like long there was this like long
discussion that like is less interesting
to people, and then then, you know, then
there's other thing that's like more
interesting to people, so, you know,
let's let's let's kind of make this this
edit. So, you know, I think the country
of geniuses in a data center will be
able to do that. The the way it will be
able to do that is, you know, it will
have general control of a computer
screen, right? Like it, you know, and
and and you'll be able to feed this in,
and it'll be able to also use the
computer screen to like go on the web,
look at all your previous look at all
your previous interviews, like look at
what people are saying on Twitter in
response to your interviews, like talk
to you, ask you questions, talk to your
staff, look at the history of kind of
edits edits that you did, and from that
like do the job.
>> Yeah. Um so, I think that's dependent on
several things. One, that's dependent
and and and and I think this is one of
the things that's actually blocking
deployment, um getting to the point on
computer use where the models are really
masters at using the computer, right?
And, you know, we've seen this climb in
in benchmarks, and benchmarks are
always, you know, imperfect measures,
but like, you know, OS world is, you
know, went from, you know, like 5%, you
know, like uh I think when we first
re-released, you know,
uh uh computer use like a a year and a
quarter ago, it was like maybe 15%, I
don't remember exactly, but we've
climbed from that to like 65 or 70% um
and and you know, there may be harder
measures as well, but but I think
computer use has to pass a point of
reliability. Can I just ask a follow-up
on that before you move on to the next
point? Um I often for years I've been
trying to build different internal LLM
tools for myself and I off often I have
these
text in text out tasks which should be
dead center in the repertoire of these
models and yet I still hire humans to do
them just because it's if it's something
like make identify what the best clips
would be in this transcript and maybe
they'll do like a seven out of 10 job at
them but there's not this ongoing way I
can engage with them to help them get
better at the job the way I could with a
human employee and so that missing
ability even if you solve computer use
would still block my ability to like
offload an actual job to them. Again,
there's there's this gets back to what
we to kind of to kind of what what we
were talking about before with learning
on the job where it's it's very
interesting. You know, I think I think
with the coding agents like I don't
think people would say that learning on
the job is what is what is you know,
preventing the coding agents from like
you know, doing everything end to end
like they keep they keep getting better.
We have engineers at Anthropic who like
don't write any code and when I look at
the productivity to your to your
previous question, you know, we have
folks who say this this GPU kernel this
chip I used to write it myself. I just
have Claude do it and so there's this
there's this enormous improvement in
productivity and I don't know like when
I see Claude code like familiarity with
the code base or like it you know, or or
a feeling that the model hasn't worked
at the company for for a year. That's
not high up on the list of complaints I
see and so I think what I'm saying is
we're we're like we're kind of taking a
different path.
>> don't you think with coding that's
because there is an external scaffold of
memory which exist instantiated in the
code base which I don't know how many
other jobs have coding made fast
progress precisely because it has its
unique uh advantage that other economic
activity doesn't.
>> But but when you say that, what you're
what you're implying is that by reading
the code base into the context, I have
everything that the human needed to
learn on the job. So, that would be an
example of whether it's
written or not, whether it's available
or not, a case where everything you
needed to know, you got from the context
window, right? And that And that what we
think of as learning, like, "Oh man, I
started this job. It's going to take me
6 months to understand the code base."
The model just did it in the context.
Yeah, I honestly don't know how to think
about this because
there there are people who qualitatively
report what you're saying. Um there was
a meter study, I'm sure you saw last
year, where they
had experienced developers try to
close
pull request in repositories that they
were familiar with. And those developers
reported an uplift. They They reported
that they felt more productive with the
use of these models. But in fact, if you
look at their output and how much was
actually merged back in, there's a 20%
downlift. They were less productive as a
result of using these models. And so I'm
trying to square the qualitative feeling
that people feel with these models
versus
one in a macro level, where are all
these Where is this like renaissance of
software? And then, two, when people do
these independent evaluations,
why are we not seeing the Yeah, so
productive benefits that you would
expect?
>> Within Anthropic, this is just really
unambiguous, right? We're under an
incredible amount of commercial pressure
and make it even hard harder for
ourselves cuz we have all this safety
stuff we do that I think we do more than
than than other companies. So, like, the
the the pressure to survive economically
while also keeping our values is is just
incredible, right? We're trying to keep
this 10x revenue curve going. There's
like there is zero time for
There is zero time for feeling like
we're productive when we're not. Like,
these tools make us a lot more
productive. Like why why do you think
we're concerned about competitors using
the tools? Because we think we're ahead
of the competitors and like we don't we
don't want to
we we wouldn't be going through all this
trouble if this was secretly reducing
reducing our productivity. Like we see
the end productivity every few months in
the form of model launches. Like there's
no kidding yourself about this. Like the
models make you more productive. Um
one, that is people feeling like they're
productive is qualitatively predicted by
studies like this. But two, if I just
look at the end output, obviously you
guys are making fast progress. But the
fact, you know, the
the idea was supposed to be with
recursive self-improvement is that you
make a better AI, the AI helps you build
a better next AI, etc. etc. And what I
see instead, if I look at the U, Open
AI, DeepMind, is that people are just
shifting around the podium every few
months. And maybe you think that stops
cuz you you won or whatever. But um but
why why are we not seeing the person
with the best coding model have this
lasting advantage if in fact there are
these enormous productivity gains from
the last coding model?
>> no no no. I I I mean I mean I mean I
think it's all like my my model of
situation is there's there's an
advantage that's gradually growing. Like
I would say right now the coding models
give maybe I don't know a a like 15
maybe 20% total factor speedup. Like
that's my view. Um
and 6 months ago it was maybe 5% and so
and so it didn't matter. Like 5% doesn't
register. It's now just getting to the
point where it's like one of several
factors that that kind of matters. And
and that's going to that's going to keep
speeding up. And so I think 6 months ago
like, you know,
but there were several there were
several companies that were at roughly
the same point because uh, know, this
this wasn't uh, this wasn't a notable
factor, but I think it's starting to
speed up more and more. I, you know, I I
would I would also say there are
multiple companies that, you know, write
models that are used for code, and, you
know, we're not perfectly good at, you
know, preventing some of these other
companies from from from using from from
from kind of using our models
internally. Um, so, uh, you know, I
think I think everything we're
kind kind of everything we're seeing is
consistent with this kind of, um, this
kind of snowball model where you where,
you know, there's no hard Again, my my
my my my theme in all of this is like
all of this is soft takeoff, like soft
smooth exponentials, although the
exponentials are relatively steep. And
so, and so, we're seeing this snowball
gather momentum where it's like 10%,
20%, 25%, you know, 40%
And as you go, yeah, Amdahl's law, you
have to get all the like things that are
preventing you from from closing the
loop out of the way, but like this is
one of the biggest priorities with an
Anthropic. Um, this a a stepping back, I
think
before in the stack we were talking
about, um, well, when do we get this
on-the-job learning? And it seems like
the coding the point you were making in
the coding thing is we actually don't
need on-the-job learning. Uh, that you
can have tremendous productivity
improvements, you can have potentially
trillions of dollars of revenue for AI
companies without this basic human
ability Maybe that's not your claim, you
should clarify. Um, but without this
basic human ability to learn on the job.
But I just look at like
in in most domains of economic activity,
people say, "I hired somebody, they
weren't that useful for the first few
months, and then over time they built up
the context understanding." It's
actually hard to define what we're
talking about here. But they they got
something, and then now now they're
they're powerhouse, and they're so
valuable to us. And if AI doesn't
develop this ability to learn on the
fly, I'm not I'm a bit skeptical that
we're going to see huge changes to the
world without that ability.
>> I think I I two things here, right?
There's the state of the technology
right now,
um, which is again, we have these two
stages. We have the pre-training and RL
stage where you throw you throw a bunch
of data and tasks into the models and
then they generalize. So it's like
learning, but it's like learning from
more data and and not, you know, not
learning over kind of one human or one
model's lifetime. So again, this is
situated between evolution and and and
and human learning. But once you learn
all those skills, you have them. And and
just like with pre-training, just how
the models know more, you know, if if I
look at a pre-trained model, you know,
it knows more about the history of
samurai in Japan than I do. It knows
more about baseball than I do. It knows,
you know, it knows more about, you know,
low-pass filters in electronics than you
know, all all all of these things. It's
knowledge is way broader than mine. So I
think I think even even just that, um,
you know, may get us to the point where
the models are better at
you know, kind of better at everything.
And then we also have, again, just with
scaling the kind of existing setup, we
have the in-context learning, which I
would describe as kind of like human on
the job learning, but like a little
weaker and a little short-term. Like you
look at in-context learning, the you
give the model a bunch of examples, it
does get it. There's real learning that
happens in context and like a million
tokens is a lot. That's that's, you
know, that can be days of human
learning, right? You know, if you think
about the model, you know,
you know, kind of re- reading reading a
million words, you know, it it you know,
takes me how long would it take me to
read a million? I mean, you know, like
days or weeks at least. Um,
so you have these two things and and I
think these two these two things within
the existing paradigm may just be enough
to get you the country's genius in the
data center. I don't know for sure, but
I think they're going to get you a large
fraction of it. There may be gaps, but I
I certainly think, just as things are,
this I believe is enough to generate
trillions of dollars of revenue. That's
one. That's all one. Two is this idea of
continual learning, this idea of a
single model learning on the job. Um I
think we're working on that, too, and I
think there's a good chance that in the
next year or two we also make we also
solve that. Um I I again, I I I I I you
know, I think you get most of the way
there without it. I think the trillions
of dollars of of, you know, the the I
think the trillions of dollars a year
market, maybe all of the national
security implications and the safety
implications that I wrote about in
adolescence of technology can happen
without it, but I I I also think we, and
I imagine others, are working on it. And
I think there's a good chance that that,
you know, that we get there within the
next year or two. There are a bunch of
ideas. I won't go into all of them in
detail, but um you know, one is just
make the context longer. There's There's
nothing preventing longer context from
working. You just have to train at
longer context and then learn to to
serve them at inference. And both of
those are engineering problems that we
are working on and that I would assume
others are working on as well. Yeah, so
this context length increase It seemed
like there was a period from 2020 to
2023 where from GPT-3 to GPT-4 Turbo
there was an increase from like 2,000
context lengths to 128K.
Do you feel like for the next for the
two-ish years since then we've been in
the same-ish ballpark? Yeah. And when
model context lengths get much longer
than that people report qualitative
degradation in the ability of the model
to consider that full context. Um
so I'm curious what you're internally
seeing that makes you think like oh, 10
million context, 100 million context to
get human-like 6 months learning,
billion billion context.
>> isn't a research problem. This is a This
is an engineering and inference problem,
right? If you want to serve long
context, you have to like store your
entire KV cache, you have to, you know,
um
uh you know, it's it's it's it's
difficult to store all the memory in the
GPUs, to juggle the memory around. I
don't even know the detail, you know, at
this point this is at a level of detail
that that that that I'm no longer able
to follow, although you know, I I knew
it in the GPT-3 era of like, you know,
these are the weights, these are the
activations you have to store.
Um, but you know, you know, these days
the whole thing has flipped cuz we have
MoE models and and and kind of all of
that. But, um,
uh, and and this degradation you're
talking about, like again, without
getting too specific, like a question I
would ask is like there's two things.
There's the context length you train at,
and there's a context length that you
serve at. If you train at a small
context length and then try to serve at
a long context length, like maybe you
get these degradations. It's better than
nothing, you might still offer it, but
you get these degradations. And maybe
it's harder to train at a long context
length. Yeah, so, you know, there's
there's a lot. I I I want to at the same
time ask about like maybe some rabbit
holes of like, well, wouldn't you expect
that if you have to train on longer
context length that would mean that um,
you're able to get sort of like less
samples in for the same amount of
computer. But, before maybe maybe it's
not worth diving deep on that. I I want
to get an answer to the bigger picture
question, which is like, okay, so
um, I don't feel a preference for a
human editor that's been working for me
for 6 months versus an AI that's been
working with me for 6 months.
What year do you predict that that will
be the case? I my I mean, you know,
my guess for that is you know, there's
there's there's a lot of problems that
are basically like, we can do this when
we have the country of geniuses in a
data center. Um, and so, you know, my my
my my my picture for that is, you know,
again, if you if you if you if you know,
if you made me guess, it's like 1 to 2
years, maybe 1 to 3 years. It's really
hard to tell. I have a I have a strong
view 99 95% that like all this will
happen in 10 years. Like, that's I think
that's just a super safe bet. And then,
I have a hunch, this is more like a
50/50 thing, that it's going to be more
like one to two, maybe more like one to
three. So, one to three years. The
country of genius says
um and in the slightly less economically
valuable task of editing videos.
>> [laughter]
>> I I I I I
it seems pretty economically valuable,
let me tell you. It's just there are a
lot of use cases like that, right? There
are a lot of similar ones. So, you're
predicting that within one to three
years. Um and in generally, Anthropic
has predicted that by late '26, early
'27, we will have AI systems that are
quote um have the ability to navigate
interfaces available to humans doing
digital work today, intellectual
capabilities matching or exceeding that
of Nobel Prize winners,
and the ability to interface with the
physical world. And then you gave an
interview two months ago with DealBook,
where you were emphasizing your um your
company's more responsible compute
scaling as compared to your competitors.
And I'm trying to square these two
views, where if you really believe that
we're going to have a country of
geniuses, you you want as big a data
center as you can get. There's no reason
to slow down. The TAM of a Nobel Prize
winner that is actually can do
everything a Nobel Prize winner can do
is like trillions of dollars. And so,
I'm trying to square this conservatism
uh which seems rational if you have more
moderate timelines, with your stated
views about AI progress.
>> Yeah, so so it actually all fits
together. And and we go back to this
fast, but not infinitely fast diffusion.
So, like, let's say that we're making
progress at this rate. Um you know, the
the the technology is making progress
this fast. Again, I have, you know, very
high conviction that like it's going,
you know, the the the
you know, we're we're we're going to get
there within within a few years. I have
a hunch that we're going to get there
within a year or two. So, a a little
uncertainty on the technical side, but
like, you know, pretty pretty strong
confidence that it won't be off by much.
What I'm less certain about is, again,
the economic diffusion side. Like, I
really do believe that we could have
models that are a country of geniuses a
hundred country of geniuses in a data
center in one to two years. One question
is, how many years after that do the
trillions in you know do do the do the
trillions in revenue start
rolling in. Um
I don't think it's guaranteed that it's
going to be immediate. Um you know I
think it could be
um
one year, it could be two years, I could
even stretch it to five years, although
I'm like I'm skeptical of that. And so
we have this uncertainty which is even
if the technology goes as fast as I
suspect that it will,
we we don't know exactly how fast it's
going to drive revenue. We we know it's
coming, but with the way you buy these
data centers, if you're off by a couple
years, that can be ruinous. It is just
like how I wrote, you know, in Machines
of Loving Grace, I said, "Look, I think
we might get this powerful AI of this
country of geniuses in the data center."
That description you gave comes from the
Machines of Loving Grace. I said, "We'll
get that 2026, maybe 2027." Again, that
is that is my hunch. Wouldn't be
surprised if I'm off by a year or two,
but like that is my hunch. Let's say
that happens. That's the starting gun.
How long does it take to cure all the
diseases, right? That's that's one of
the ways that like drives a huge amount
of of of of economic value, right? Like
you cure you cure every disease, you
know, there's a question of how much of
that goes to the pharmaceutical company,
to the AI company, but there's an
enormous consumer surplus because
everyone you know every I I assume we
can get access for everyone, which I
care about greatly. We you know we we
cure all of these diseases. How long
does it take? You have to do the
biological discovery, you have to you
know go you have to you know
manufacture the new drug, you have to
you know go through the regulatory
process. I mean we saw this with like
vaccines and COVID, right? Like it
there's just this we we got the vaccine
out to everyone, but it took a a and a
half, right? And and so my question is
how long does it take to get the cure
for everything, which AI is the genius
that can in theory invent out everyone.
How long from when that AI first exists
in the lab to when
diseases have actually been cured for
everyone, right? In in
you know, we've had a polio vaccine for
50 years. We're still trying to
eradicate it in the most remote corners
of Africa. And you know, the Gates
Foundation is trying as hard as they
can. Others are trying as hard as they
can, but you know, that's difficult. I
again, I you know, I don't expect most
of the economic diffusion to be as
difficult as that, right? That's like
the most difficult case. But but there's
a there's a real dilemma here. And and
where I've settled on it is it will be
it will be a it will be faster than
anything we've seen in the world, but it
it still has its limits. And and so then
when we go to buying data centers,
you know, you again again, the curve I'm
looking at is okay, we you know, we've
had a 10x a year increase every year. So
beginning of this year, we're looking at
10 billion in in in annual in you know,
rate of annualized revenue at the
beginning of the year.
We have to decide how much compute to
buy.
Um
and
you know,
it takes a year or two to actually build
out the data centers, to reserve the
data centers. So basically I'm saying
like in
2027, how much compute do I get? Well, I
could assume um
uh that uh the revenue will continue
growing 10x a year. So it'll be one
one
100 billion at the end of 2026 and 1
trillion at the end of 2027. And so I
could buy a trillion dollars. Actually
it would be like 5 trillion dollars of
compute cuz it would be a trillion
dollar a year for for 5 years, right? I
could buy a trillion dollars of compute
that starts at the end of 2027. And if
my if my revenue is not a trillion
dollars, if it's even
800 billion, there's no force on Earth.
There's there's no hedge on Earth that
could stop me from going bankrupt if I
if I buy that much compute. And and so,
even though a part of my brain wonders
if it's going to keep growing 10x, I
can't buy a trillion dollars a year of
compute in in in in in in in in in in in
if I'm just off by a year in that rate
of growth or if the the growth rate is
5x a year instead of 10x a year, then
then, you know, that you go bankrupt. Um
and and and and so, you end up in a
world where, you know, you're supporting
hundreds of billions, not trillions, and
you accept you accept some risk that
there's so much demand that you can't
support the revenue, and you accept
still some risk that, you know, you got
it wrong and it's still slow. And so,
when I talked about behaving
responsibly, what I meant actually was
not the absolute amount. That that
actually was not um you know, I think it
is true we're spending somewhat less
than some of the other players. It's
actually the other things like
have we been thoughtful about it or are
we yoloing and saying, "Oh, we're going
to do a hundred billion dollars here or
a hundred billion dollars there?" I kind
of get the impression that, you know,
some of the other companies have not
written down the spreadsheet, that they
don't really understand the risks
they're taking. They're just kind of
doing stuff cuz it sounds cool. Um uh
and and
we thought carefully about it, right?
We're an enterprise business. Therefore,
you know, we can rely more on revenue.
It's less fickle than consumer. We have
better margins, which is the buffer
between buying too much and buying too
little. And so, I think we bought an
amount that allows us to capture
pretty strong upside worlds. It won't
capture the full 10x a year. Um and
things would have to go pretty badly for
us to be for us to be in financial
trouble. So, I think we thought
carefully and we've made that balance
and and that's what I mean when I say
that we're being responsible. Okay, so
it seems like um it's possible that
we're we actually just have different
definitions of a country of geniuses in
a data center. Because when I think of
like actual human geniuses and actual
country of human geniuses in a data
center, I'm like
I would happily buy 5 trillion dollars
worth of compute to run uh actual
country of human geniuses in a data
center. So, let's say JP Morgan or
Moderna or whatever doesn't want to use
them. Also, I've got a country of
geniuses. Like they'll they'll start
their own company. And if like they they
can't start their own company and
they're bottlenecked by clinical trials,
it is worth stating with clinical trials
like most clinical trials fail because
the drug doesn't work. There's no
efficacy, right?
>> exactly that point in in Machines of
Love and Grace. I say the clinical
trials are going to go much faster than
we're used to. But not not instant not
infinitely fast. And then suppose it
takes a year to uh for the clinical
trials to work out so that you're
getting revenue from that and can make
more drugs. Okay, well, you've got a
country of geniuses and you're in the AI
lab and you have you could use uh many
more AI researchers. Um and you also
think that there's these like
self-reinforcing gains from you know,
smart people working on AI tech. So,
like okay, you can have the
>> That's right. You can have the data
center working on like AI progress.
>> more gains from buying
like substantially more gains from
buying a trillion dollars a year of
compute versus 300 billion dollars a
year of compute?
>> buying a trillion, yes, there is.
>> Well, no, there's some gain, but then
but again, there's this chance that they
go bankrupt before
you know, before again, if you're off by
only a year, you destroy yourselves.
That's the that's the balance. We're
buying a lot. We're buying a hell of a
lot. Like we're not we're we're you
know, we're buying an amount that's
comparable to that that you know, the
the the the the the biggest players in
the game are buying. Um but but if
you're asking me why do why haven't we
signed, you know, 10 10 trillion of
compute starting in starting in mid
2027, first of all, it can't be
produced. There isn't that much in the
world. Um
but but second, um
what if the country of geniuses comes,
but it comes in mid 2028 instead of mid
2027? You go bankrupt. So,
if your projection is 1 to 3 years,
it seems like you should have 1 10
trillion dollars of compute by
um 2029. 2020 and maybe 2025. I mean,
like
>> I mean, you know, you you you you you
you you
>> But like are you interested in like it
seems like even in your the longest
version of the timelines you stated, the
compute you are ramping up to build
doesn't seem What what what what what
makes you think that?
Well, you you as you said, you would
want the 10 trillion like human wages,
let's say, are um
on the order of 50 trillion a year.
>> If if you look at so so I won't I won't
talk about Anthropic in particular, but
if you talk about the industry, like um
the amount of compute the industry had
you know, the the the the amount of
compute the industry's building this
year is probably in the you know, I
don't know, very low tens of you may you
know, call it 10 15 gigawatts. Next
year, I you know, it it goes up by
roughly 3x a year, so like next year's
30 or 40 gigawatts, and um 2028 might be
100, 2029 might be like
3 300 gigawatts, and like each gigawatt
costs like
um
maybe 10 I mean, I'm doing the math in
my head, but each gigawatt it costs
maybe 10 billion dollars, you know, of
order 10 to 15 billion dollars a year.
So, you know, you you kind of you you
you know, you put that all together, and
you're getting about about what you
described. You're getting multiple
trillions a year by 2028 or 2029. So,
you're you're you're getting exactly
that. You're getting you're getting
exactly what you predict. Um that's for
the industry.
>> That that's for the industry. That's
right.
>> So, suppose Anthropic's compute keeps 3x
a year, and then by like 27 you have
uh or 27 28 you have 10 gigawatts. And
like multiply that by as you say
10 billion. So then it's like 100
billion a year. But then you're saying
the TAM by 2028, 2029.
>> I don't want to give exact numbers for
Anthropic, but but these numbers are too
small. These numbers are too small.
Okay, interesting.
I'm really proud that the puzzles I've
worked on with Jane Street have resulted
in them hiring a bunch of people for my
audience. Well, they're still hiring and
they just sent me another puzzle. For
this one, they spent about 20,000 GPU
hours training backdoors into three
different language models. Each one has
a hidden prompt that elicits completely
different behavior. You just have to
find the trigger. This is particularly
cool because finding backdoors is
actually an open question in frontier AI
research. Anthropic actually released a
couple of papers about sleeper agents
and they showed that you can build a
simple classifier on the residual stream
to detect when a backdoor is about to
fire. [music] But they already knew what
the triggers were because they built
them. Here, you don't and it's not
feasible to check the activations for
all possible trigger [music] phrases.
Unlike the other puzzles they've made
for this podcast, Jane Street isn't even
sure this one is solvable. But they've
set aside $50,000 for the best [music]
attempts and write-ups. The puzzle's
live at janestreet.com/twarcash
and they're accepting submissions until
April 1st.
All right, back to Dario.
You've told investors that you plan to
be profitable starting in 2028.
And this is the year where we're like
potentially getting the country of
geniuses a data center.
And we either this is like going to now
unlock all this
progress and medicine and health and
etc. etc. and new technologies.
It wouldn't this be a particular the
exactly the time where you'd like want
to reinvest in the business and build
bigger countries so they can make more
discoveries?
>> I mean profit profitability is this kind
of like weird thing in this field. I
like like I don't think I I don't think
in this field profitability is actually
a measure of uh
you know kind of spending down versus
investing in the business like let's
let's just let's just take a model of
this. I actually think profitability
happens when you underestimated the
amount of demand you were going to get
and loss happens when you overestimated
the amount of demand you were going to
get because you're buying the data
centers ahead of time. So think about it
this way.
Ideally you would like and again these
are stylized facts. These numbers are
not exact for anything. I'm just trying
to make a toy model here. Let's say half
of your compute is for training and half
of your compute is for inference
and you know the inference has some
gross margin that's like more than 50%
and so what that means is that if you
were in steady state you build a data
center if you knew exactly exactly
exactly the demand you were getting you
would
you know you would you would you you
would you would get a certain amount of
revenue say I don't know
let's say you pay a hundred billion
dollars a year for compute and on 50
billion dollars a year you support 150
billion dollars on of of of of of of of
revenue and the other 50 billion the
other 50 billion are used for training.
So basically you're profitable you make
you make you make 50 billion dollars of
profit. Those are the economics of the
industry today or or sorry not today but
like that's where we're where we're
projecting forward in a year or two. The
only thing that makes that not the case
is if you get less demand than 50
billion
then you have more than 50% of your your
data center for research and you're not
profitable. So you you know you train
stronger models but you're like not
profitable.
If you get more demand than you thought
then your research gets squeezed
but you know you're you're you're kind
of able to support more inference and
you're more profitable. So it's
maybe I'm not explaining it well but but
the thing I'm trying to say is you
decide the amount of compute first and
then you have some target desire of of
inference versus versus training, but
that gets determined by demand. It
doesn't get determined by you.
>> what I'm hearing is the reason you're
predicting profit is that you are
systematically underestimat- under
investing in compute, right? Because if
you actually like
>> no. I'm saying I'm saying it's hard to
predict. So so these things about 2028
and when it will happen, that's our
that's our attempt to do the best we can
with investors. All of this stuff is
really uncertain because of the cone of
uncertainty. Like we could be profitable
in 2026 if the if the revenue grows fast
enough. And then and then um
you know, if we if we overestimate or
underestimate the next year, that could
swing wildly. Like I I I What I'm trying
to get at is you have a model in your
head of like the the business invests,
invests, invests, invests, gets scale,
and and and and kind of then becomes
profitable. There's a single point at
which things turn around. I don't think
the economics of this industry work that
way.
I see. So if I'm understanding
correctly, you're saying because of the
discrepancy between the amount of
compute we should have gotten and the
amount of compute we got, we we were
like sort of forced to make profit, but
that that doesn't mean we're going to
continue making profit. We're going to
like reinvest the money because well,
now AI's made so much progress and we
want the bigger country of geniuses. And
so
then back into
uh revenue's high, but losses are also
high.
>> If we If we If we predict If every year
we predict exactly what the demand is
going to be, we'll be profitable every
year.
Because grow because spending spending
50% of your compute on on um 50% of your
compute on research, roughly, um
plus a gross margin that's higher than
50% and and correct demand prediction
leads to profit. That's the profit
That's That's the profitable business
model that I think is kind of like
there, but like obs- obscured by these
like building ahead and prediction
errors.
>> I I guess you're treating the 50% as a
uh as a sort of like
you know, just like a given constant.
Whereas you In fact, if you if the AI
progress is fast and you can increase
the progress by scaling up more, you
just have more than 50% and not make
progress.
>> what I'll say. You might want to scale
up it more. You might want to scale it
up more. But but but, you know, remember
the law returns to scale, right? If if
70% would get you
a very little bit of a smaller model
through a factor of of 1.4x, right? Like
that extra 20 billion dollars is is is
is, you know, that each each dollar
there is worth much less to you because
of because of because the law linear
setup. And so, you might find that it's
better to invest that that that that
it's better to invest that 20 billion
dollars in, you know, in in serving
inference or in hiring engineers who are
who are who are kind of better who are
who are kind of better who are kind of
better at what they're doing. So, the
the reason I said 50% That's not that's
not exactly our target. It's not exactly
going to be 50%. It'll probably vary
vary over time. What what I'm saying is
the the the the the like law linear
return what it leads to is you spend of
order one fraction of the business,
right? Like not 5% not 95% and then it
then it then you know, then then then
you get diminishing returns because of
the because the law law law law law law
law law law law
>> like convincing Dario to like believe in
AI progress or something. But like you
Okay, you you don't invest in research
because it has diminishing returns, but
you invest in the other things you
mentioned. Again, again, we're talking
about diminishing returns.
After you're spending 50 billion a year.
Right. Like This is a point I'm I'm I'm
sure you'd make, but like
diminishing returns on a genius is could
be quite high. And more generally, like
what is profit in a market economy?
Profit is basically saying the other
companies in the market can like do more
things with this money that I can't.
>> I then thought I'm just trying to like
cuz I I you know, I don't want to give
information about Anthropic is why I'm
giving these stylized numbers. But like
let's just derive the equilibrium of the
industry, right? I think the So so so
why doesn't everyone spend 100% of their
you know, 100% of their compute on
training and not serve any customers,
right? It's because if they didn't get
any revenue, they couldn't raise money,
they couldn't do compute deals, they
couldn't buy more compute the next year.
So there's going to be an equilibrium
where every every company spends less
than 100% on on on on training and
certainly less than 100% on inference.
It should be clear why you don't just
serve the current models and and you
know, and and and and and and and and
never train another model because then
you don't have any demand because you'll
because you'll fall behind. So there's
some equilibrium. It's it's not going to
be 10%, it's not going to be 90%. Let's
just say as a stylized fact it's 50%.
That's what I'm getting at. And and and
I think we're going to be in a position
where that equilibrium of how much you
spend on training
is less than the gross margins that that
you're that that that that you're able
to get on compute. And so the the the
the underlying economics are profitable.
The problem is you have this this
hellish demand prediction problem when
you're when you're buying the next year
of compute and you might guess under and
be very profitable but have no compute
for research or you might guess over and
you know, you're you're you're
you you are not profitable and you have
all the compute compute for research in
the world.
Does it does it does that make sense?
It's just a dynamic model of the
industry.
>> Maybe stepping back I'm like
I I I'm not saying I I think the country
of geniuses going to come in two years
and therefore you should buy this
compute.
To me what you're saying the end
conclusion you're arriving at makes a
lot of sense, but
that's because like oh, it seems like
country of geniuses is hard and there's
a long way to go. And so the stepping
back the thing I'm trying to get at is
more like
it seems like your worldview is
compatible with somebody who says Uh,
like 10 years away from a world in which
like we're generating trillions of
dollars worth.
>> that's just not my view. That is that is
not my view. Like I I so so so I'll like
I'll like make another prediction. It is
hard for me to see that that there won't
be trillions of dollars in revenue
before 2030. Um, like uh, I can I can
construct a plausible world. It takes
maybe 3 years. So that would that would
you know, that would be the end of what
I think it's plausible like in 2028 we
get the the real country of geniuses in
the data center. You know, the revenue's
been been go you know, the revenue's
been going into the maybe is a is in the
low hundreds of billions by by by by
2028. And and and then the country of
geniuses accelerates it to trillions,
you know, and and we're basically we're
basically on the slow end of diffusion.
It takes 2 years to get to the
trillions. That that that would that
that that would be the world where it
takes until That would be the world
where it takes until 2030. I I I suspect
even composing the technical exponential
and diffusion exponential will get there
before 2030. So you laid out a model
where Anthropic makes profit because it
seems like fundamentally we're in a
compute-constrained world. And so it's
like eventually we keep growing compute.
>> No, I think I think the way the profit
comes is again and and you know, let's
let's just abstract the whole industry
here. Like we have a you know, let's
just imagine we're we're we're in like
an economics textbook. We have a small
number of firms. Each can invest a
limited amount in you know, or or or
like each can invest some fraction
fraction in R&D. They have some marginal
cost to serve. The margins on that the
profit margin the gross profit margins
on that marginal cost are like very high
because because because inference is
efficient. There's some competition, but
the models are also differentiated.
There's some there's some um, you know,
companies will compete to push their
research budgets up, but like because
there's a small number of players, you
know, we have the I what is it called
the the Cournot equilibrium? I think is
what the what the uh small number of
firm equi- equilibrium is. It The point
is it doesn't equilibrate to perfect
competition with with with with with
with with zero margins. If there's like
three firms, if there's three firms in
the economy, all are kind of
independently behaving behaving
rationally, it doesn't equilibrate to
zero. Um
Help me understand that cuz right now we
do have three leading firms and they're
not making profit. Um and so what what
what uh
Yeah, what what what is changing? Yeah,
so the the again, the gross margins
right now are very positive. What's
happen- What what what's happening is a
combination of two things. One is we're
still in the exponential scale up phase
of compute.
>> Yeah. Um So what basically what that
means is we're training like a model
gets trained. It costs, you know, let's
say a model got trained that costs uh a
billion dollars last year. Um and then
uh this year it produced uh $4 billion
of revenue and cost $1 billion to to uh
to to to inference from. Um so you know,
again, I'm using stylized number here,
but you know, that would be 75% you
know, gross gross gross margins and you
know, this this 25% tax. So that model
as a whole makes $2 billion. Um but at
the same time, we're spending $10
billion to train the next model because
there's an exponential scale up. And so
the company loses money. Each model
makes money, but the company loses
money. The equilibrium I'm talking about
is an equilibrium where we have the
country of geniuses, we have the country
of geniuses in the data center, but that
that um
model training scale up has equilibrated
more.
Maybe maybe it's still it's still going
up. We're still trying to predict the
demand, but it's more it's more um
leveled out. Um I'm giving you a couple
of things there. So um let's start with
the current world. Um, in the current
world, you're right that
as you said before, if you treat each
individual model as a company, it's
profitable. Yeah, of course. A big part
of the production function of being a
frontier lab is training the next model,
right? So, if you if you didn't do that,
then you'd make profit for 2 months, and
then you wouldn't have margins cuz you
wouldn't have the best model, and then
so, yeah, you you can make profit for 2
months on the current system.
>> point that reaches the biggest scale
that it can reach. And then and then in
equilibrium, we have algorithmic but
we're spending roughly the same amount
to train the next model as as as we as
we spent to train the current model. Um,
so, this equilibrium relies I mean, at
some point at some at at some point you
run out of money in the economy. Uh,
fixed lump of labor file
the economy is going to grow, right?
That's one of your predictions. Well,
yes. But this is this is space.
>> But this is another example of the theme
I was talking about, which is that the
economy will grow much faster with AI
than I think it ever has before, but
it's not like right now the computer is
growing 3x a year. Yeah. I don't believe
the economy is going to grow 300% a
year. Like I said this in Machines of
Loving Grace. Like I think we we may get
10 or 20% for a year growth in the
economy, but we're not going to get 300%
growth in the economy. So, I think I
think in the end, you know, if compute
becomes the majority of what the economy
produces, it's it's going to it's going
to be capped by that.
>> So,
okay, now let's assume a model where
compute stays capped. Yeah.
The world where frontier labs are making
money is one where they continue to make
um, fast progress because fundamentally
your margin is limited by how good the
alternative is. And so, you are able to
make money cuz you have a frontier
model. Um, if you didn't have a frontier
model, you wouldn't be making money.
Well, you you I mean
>> And and so, this this this this model
requires
there never to be a steady state. Like
forever and ever, you keep making more
algorithmic progress.
>> think that's true. I mean, I feel I feel
I like we're we're like we're talk we're
we're you know we're I feel like this is
an economics like
you know
this is this is like an economics class
>> Tyler Cowen code? We never stop talking
about economics.
>> we never stop talking about economics.
So, no, but but there there are there
are worlds in which um you know there
So, I I don't think this field's going
to be a I don't think this field's going
to be a monopoly. All my lawyers never
want me to say the word monopoly. Um but
I don't think this field's going to be a
monopoly, but but you do get you get
industries in which there are small
number of players, not one but a small
number of players. And ordinarily like
the way you get monopolies like
Facebook or or Meta or
I always call them Facebook, but um
is is these kind of net is these kind of
these kind of network effects. Yeah. The
way you get industries in which there
are small number of players are very
high costs of entry, right? Um so, you
know, uh cloud is like this. I think
cloud is a good example of this. You
have three, maybe four players within
cloud. I think I think that's the same
for AI, three maybe four. Um
and the reason is that it's it's so
expensive, it requires so much expertise
and so much capital to like run a cloud
company, right? And so you have to put
up all this capital and then in addition
to putting up all this capital, you have
to get all of this other stuff that
like, you know, requires a lot of skill
to you know to make it happen. And so
it's like if you go to someone and
you're like, I want to disrupt this
industry, here's $100 billion or like,
"Okay, I'm putting $100 billion and also
betting that you can do all these other
things that these people have been doing
and so like
>> Only you decrease the profit in the
industry.
>> And and and then and then the effect of
your entering is is the profit margins
go down. So, you know, we have
equilibria like this all the time in the
economy where we have a few we have a
few players,
profits are not astronomical, margins
are not astronomical, but they're
they're not zero, right? Um
and and you know, I think I I that's
what we see on cloud. Cloud is very
undifferentiated. Models are more
differentiated than cloud, right? Like
everyone knows Claude is Claude Claude
is good at different things than GPT is
good at is than than Gemini is good at.
And it's not just Claude's good at
coding, GPT is good at, you know, math
and reasoning, you know, um uh it it's
more subtle than that. Like models are
good at different types of coding.
Models have different styles. Like I
think I think these things are actually,
you know, quite different from each
other. And so expect more
differentiation than you see in in um
cloud. Now, there there actually is a
uh counter there there there is one
counterargument. Um and that
counterargument is that if all of that,
the process of producing models, um
becomes uh if AI models can do that
themselves, then that could spread
throughout the economy. But that is not
an argument for commoditizing AI models
in general. That's kind of an argument
for commoditizing the whole economy at
once. Um I don't know what what quite
happens in that world where basically
anyone can do anything, anyone can build
anything, and there's like no moat
around anything at all. I mean, I don't
know, maybe we want that world. Like
like maybe that's the maybe that's the
end state here. Like maybe maybe um you
know, when what maybe when when when
kind of AI models can do you know, when
what when when AI models can do
everything, if we've solved all the
safety and security problems, like, you
know, that's one of the one of the one
of the mechanisms for for uh you know,
um uh
uh you know, just just kind of the
economy flattening itself again. But but
that's kind of like post like
far post country of geniuses in a data
center. Um I maybe uh a finer way to put
that uh potential point is one
it seems like AI research is especially
loaded on raw intellectual power, which
will be especially abundant in a world
of AGI. And two, if you just look at the
world today,
there's very few technologies that seem
to be diffusing as fast as um
as AI algorithmic progress. And so, that
does hint that this industry is sort of
structurally diffusive. So, I think
coding is going fast, but I think AI
research is a super set of coding and
there are aspects of it that are not
going fast. Um uh but I but I do think
again, once we get coding, once we get
AI models going fast, then, you know, AI
you know, that will speed up the ability
of AI models to kind to kind of do
everything else. So, I think while
coding is going fast now, I think once
the AI models are building the next AI
models and building everything else, the
kind of whole the whole economy will
start to kind of go at the same pace. I
am I am worried geographically, though.
I'm a little worried that like just
proximity to AI, having heard about AI,
um
uh that that that may be one
differentiator. And so, when I said the
like, you know, 10 or 20% growth rate, a
worry I have is that the growth rate
could be like 50% in Silicon Valley and,
you know, parts of the world that are
kind of socially connected to Silicon
Valley and, you know,
not that much faster than its current
pace elsewhere. And I think that'd be a
pretty messed up world. So, I one of the
things I think about a lot is how to
prevent that. Yeah. Do you think that
once we have uh the center of genius in
a data center, that
robotics is sort of quickly solved
afterwards because it seems like a big
problem with robotics is that um
a human can learn how to teleoperate
current hardware, but current AI models
can't, at least not not in a way that's
super productive. And so, if we have
this ability to learn like a human,
should it solve robotics immediately as
well?
>> I don't think it's dependent on learning
like a human. It could happen in
different ways. Again, we could have
trained the model on many different
video games, which are like robotic
controls or many different simulated
robotics environments or just, you know,
train them to control computer screens
and they learn to generalize. So, it
will happen.
It's not necessarily dependent on
human-like learning. Human-like learning
is one way it could happen if the
model's like, "Oh, I pick up a robot. I
don't know how to use it. I learn." That
that could happen because we discovered
discovering continual learning. That
could also happen because we train the
model on a bunch of environments and
then it generalized or it could happen
because the model learns that in the
context length. It It doesn't actually
matter which way. If we go back to the
discussion we had like like an hour ago,
that type of thing can happen in that
type of thing can happen in several
different ways. Um
but but I do think when for for whatever
reason the models have those skills,
then
robotics will be revolutionized both the
design of robots because the models will
be much better than humans at that
and also the the ability to kind of
control robots. So, we'll get better at
the physical building the physical
hardware, building the physical robots
and we'll also get better at controlling
it. Now, you know, does that mean the
robotics industry will also be
generating trillions of dollars of
revenue? My answer there is yes, but
there will be the same extremely fast
but not infinitely fast diffusion. So,
will robotics be be revolutionized?
Yeah, maybe tack on another year or two.
Mhm. That's that's my That's the way I
think about these things.
>> Uh there's a general skepticism about
extremely fast progress. Like here
here's my view which is like it sounds
like you are going to solve continual
learning one way or another within the
matter of years, but just as people
weren't talking about continual learning
a couple years ago and then we realized,
"Oh, why aren't these models as useful
as they could be right now even though
they are clearly passing the Turing test
and are experts in so many different
domains? Maybe it's this thing." And
then we solve this thing and we realize,
"Actually, there's another
another thing that human intelligence
can do and that's a basis of human labor
that these models can't do." And then so
why not think there will be more things
like this? Why I think that like
we're we're, you know, we've like found
the pieces of human intelligence.
>> Well, well, to be clear, I mean, I think
continual learning as I've said before
might not be a barrier at all, right?
Like like, you know, I think I think we
maybe just get there by pre-training
generalization and and and and and and
and and RL generalization. Like I I
think there just might not be
um there there there basically might not
be such a thing at all. In fact, I would
point to the history in in ML of
people coming up with things that are
barriers that end up kind of dissolving
within the big blob of compute, right?
That, you know, people talk talked
about, you know,
you know, how do you have
you know, how do how do your models keep
track of nouns and verbs? And, you know,
how do they, you know, they can
understand semantic syntactically, but
they can't understand semantically, you
know, it's only statistical
correlations. You can understand a
paragraph, you can understand a word.
There's reasoning, you can't do
reasoning, but then suddenly it turns
out you can do code and math very well
at all. So,
I I think there actually there's there's
actually a stronger history of some of
these things seeming like a big deal and
then and then kind of and then kind of
dissolving. Some of them are real. I
mean, the need for data is real. May
maybe continual
continual learn continual learning is a
real thing, but again, I would ground us
in something like code. Like, I think we
may get to the point in like a year or
two where the models can just do sweet
end end. Like, that's a whole task.
That's a whole sphere of human activity
that that we're just saying models can
do it now. Um When you say end to end,
do you mean um
setting technical direction,
understanding the context of the
problem, etc.? Okay.
>> Yes, I mean all of that.
>> Interesting. I mean,
it that that is
I feel like EJ complete. Um maybe it's
maybe it's internally consistent, but I
um it's not like saying 90% of code or
100% of code. It's like
>> No, no. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
Eventually those get done as well. But
that's a long spectrum there. But we're
traversing the spectrum very quickly.
Yeah. Um I do think it's funny that I I
I've seen a couple of podcasts you've
done where um the host will be like,
"Oh, but we're catching up with the
essay about the control learning thing."
And it always makes me crack up cuz
you're like, you know, you've you've
been an AI researcher for like 10 years
and uh
I'm sure there's like some uh feeling of
like, "Okay, so podcasts are writing an
essay."
And [laughter] like every interview I
get asked about it.
You know, the the truth of the the truth
of the matter is that we're all trying
to figure this out together.
>> Yeah. Right? There there are some ways
in which I'm able to see things that
others aren't. These days that probably
has more to do with like I can see a
bunch of stuff within Anthropic and have
to make a bunch of decisions than I have
any great research insight that that
that others don't, right? I you know,
I'm running a 2,500 person company. Like
it's it's actually pretty hard for me to
concrete research insight, you know, my
uh much harder than you know, than it
than it would have been, you know, 10
years ago or or you know, or even two or
three years ago. Um
As we go towards a world of a full
drop-in remote worker replacement, does
a API pricing model still make the most
sense? And if not, what is the correct
way to price AGI or serve AGI?
>> Yeah, I mean I think there's going to be
a bunch of different business models
here sort of all at once that are going
to be
that are going to be experimented with.
Um I I I actually do think that the the
API
um
model is is more durable than many
people think. Um one way I think about
it is if the
technology is kind of advancing quickly,
if it's advancing exponentially, what
that means is there's there's always
kind of like a surface area of of kind
of new use cases that have been
developed in in the last uh in the last
3 months. And any kind of product
surface you put in place is always at
risk of sort of becoming irrelevant,
right? Any given product surface
probably makes sense for our, you know,
a range of capabilities of the model,
right? The the chatbot is already
running into limitations of, you know,
making it smarter doesn't really help
the average consumer that much. But I
don't think that's a limitation of AI
models. I don't think that's evidence
that, you know, the models are are the
models are good enough and they're
they're, you know, them getting better
doesn't matter to the economy. It
doesn't matter to that particular
product. Um and and so I think the value
of the API is the API
always offers an opportunity, you know,
very close to the bare metal to build on
what the latest thing is. Um and so
there, you know, there's there's there's
kind of always going to be this, you
know, this this kind of front of new
startups and new ideas that weren't
possible a few months ago and are
possible because the model is advancing.
And and so I I actually I I I kind of
actually predict that
we are
it's going to exist alongside other
models, but we're always going to have
the API business model because there's
there's always going to be a need for a
thousand different people to try
experimenting with the model in
different way and a hundred of them
become startups and ten of them become
big successful startups and, you know,
two or three really end up being the the
way that people use the model of a of a
given generation. So I basically think
it's always going to exist. At the same
time I'm sure there's going to be other
models as well. Like not every token
>> [snorts]
>> that's output by the model is worth the
same amount. Think about you know, how
how how what is the value of the tokens
that are like, you know, that the model
outputs when someone, you know
call, you know, someone, you know, calls
them up and says my Mac isn't working or
something, you know, the model's like
restart it, right? Um and like, you
know, someone hasn't heard that before,
but like, you know, the model said that
like
10 million times, right? Um, you know,
that's that maybe that's worth like a
dollar or a few cents or something. Um,
whereas if uh the model, you know, the
model goes to, you know, one of the one
of the pharmaceutical companies and it
says, "Oh, you know, this molecule
you're developing, you should take the
aromatic ring from that end of the
molecule and put it on that end of the
molecule. Um, and and you know, if you
do that, wonderful things will happen."
Um, uh uh like like those tokens could
could be [laughter] worth, you know,
tens of millions of dollars, right? Um,
uh so so I think we're definitely going
to see business models that that
recognize that, you know, at some point
we're going to see, you know, pay for
results or you you know, in some in some
form or we may see forms of compensation
that are like labor. Um,
uh you know, that that kind of work by
the hour. Um, I I I you know, I don't
know. I think I think I think because
it's a new industry, a lot of things are
going to be tried and I, you know, I
don't know what will turn out to be the
right thing. Um, what I find uh
I I take your point that people will
have to try things to figure out what is
the best way to use this
blob of intelligence, but what I find
striking
is
Claude Code. So, I don't think in the
history of startups there has been a
single application that has been as
hotly competed in as coding agents. And
um
and and Claude Code is
a category leader here. And that seems
surprising to me. Like, it doesn't seem
intrinsically like Anthropic had to
build this. And I wonder if you have an
accounting of why it had to be Anthropic
or why how Anthropic ended up building
an application in addition to the model
underlying it.
>> Yeah, so it actually happened in a
pretty simple way, which is we had our
own
um
you know,
we had our coding models, which were
good at coding. And and you know, around
the beginning of 2025, I said, "I I
think the time has come where you can
have non-trivial acceleration of your
own research.
Um, if you're an AI company by using
these models. And of course, you know,
we you need an interface. You need a
harness to use them. And so I encouraged
people internally, you know, I didn't
say this is one thing that, you know,
that you have to use.
I just said people should experiment
with this.
And then, you know, this thing I you
know, I think it might have been
originally called Claude CLI and then
then and then eventually got changed to
Claude Code internally, um,
was the thing that kind of everyone was
using it and was seeing fast internal
adoption. And I looked at it and I said,
"Well, probably we should launch this
externally, right? Um, you know, it's
it's seen such fast adoption within
Anthropic like, you know, like, you
know, coding is a lot of what we do and
and so, you know, we have a we have a
audience of many many hundreds of people
that's in some ways at least
representative of the external audience.
So, it looks like we already have
product market fit. Let's launch this
thing."
Um, and and then we launched it and and
and I think, you know, just just the
fact that we ourselves are kind of
developing the model and we ourselves
know what we most need to use the model.
I think it's it's kind of creating this
feedback loop. I see. In the sense that
you let's say a developer at Anthropic
is like, "Ah, it it'd be better if it
was better at this X thing." And then
you bake that into the next model that
you build.
>> That that's that's one version of it.
But but then there's just the ordinary
product iteration of like, you know, we
have a bunch of we have a bunch of
coders within Anthropic like, we um, you
know, they they like use Claude Code
every day and so we get fast feedback.
That was more important in the early
days. Now, of course, there are millions
of people using it. Um, and so we get a
bunch of external feedback as well, but
it's
you know, it's just great to be able to
get, you know, kind of kind of uh um,
fast fast internal feedback. You know, I
think this is the reason why we launched
a coding model and you know, didn't
launch a pharmaceutical company, right?
It you know, you know, my background's
in in my background's in in like
biology, but like we don't have any of
the resources that are needed to launch
a pharmaceutical company.
So, there's been a ton of hype around
Open Claw, and I want to check it out
for myself. I've got a day coming up
this weekend, and I don't have anything
planned yet. So, I gave Open Claw a
Mercury debit card. I set a couple
hundred dollar limit, and I said,
"Surprise me." Okay, so here's the
Mercury money it's on, and besides
having access to my Mercury, it's
totally quarantined. Naturally, I feel
quite comfortable giving it access to a
debit card because Mercury makes it
super easy to set up guardrails. I was
able to customize permissions, cap the
spend, and restrict the category of
purchases. I wanted to make sure the
debit card worked, so I asked Open Claw
to just make a test transaction, and
decided to donate a couple bucks to
Wikipedia. Besides that, I have no idea
what's going to happen. I will report
back on the next episode about how it
goes. In the meantime, if you want a
personal banking solution that can
accommodate all the different ways that
people use their money, even
experimental ones like this one, visit
mercury.com/personal.
Mercury is a fintech company, not an
FDIC insured bank. Banking services
provided through Choice Financial Group
and Column NA, members FDIC. You know,
she thinks we're getting coffee and
walking around the neighborhood.
>> [laughter]
>> Um let me ask you about and now um
making AI go well. Um
it seems like whatever vision we have
about how AI goes well has to be
compatible with two things. One is the
ability to build and run AIs is
diffusing extremely rapidly. And two is
that the population of AIs, the amount
we have in their intelligence, will also
increase very rapidly. And that means
that lots of people will be able to
build huge populations of misaligned AIs
or uh AIs which are just like companies
which are trying to increase their uh
footprint or have weird psychics like
Sydney Bing, but now they're superhuman.
What is a vision for a world in which
we have an equilibrium that is
compatible with lots of different AIs,
some of which are misaligned, running
around.
>> Yeah, yeah. So, I think, you know, in
the adolescence of technology, I was
kind of
you know, skeptical of like the balance
of power. But, I would I think I was
particularly skeptical of or the thing I
was specifically skeptical of is you
have like three or four of these
companies like
kind of all building models that are
kind of dry, you know, sort of sort of
um uh uh like derived from the
like derived from the same thing and uh
you know, that that these would check
each other. Or or even that kind of, you
know, any number of them would would
would uh would would check each other.
Like, we might live in a
offense-dominant world where, you know,
like one person or one AI model is like
smart enough to do something that like
causes damage for everything else. Um I
think in the I mean, in the short run,
we have a limited number of players now.
So, we can start by within the limited
number of players, we uh you know, we
kind of, you know, we we need to put in
place the, you know, the safeguards. We
need to make sure everyone does the
right alignment work. We need to make
sure everyone has bio classifiers. Like,
you know, those are those are kind of
the immediate things we need to do. I
agree that, you know, that that doesn't
solve the problem in the long run,
particularly if the ability of AI models
to make other AI models proliferates,
then, you know,
the the whole thing can kind of um you
know, it can become harder to solve. I
you know, I think I think in the long
run, we need some architecture of
governance, right? Some architecture of
governance that preserves human freedom,
but but kind of also allows us to like,
you know, govern the the very large
number of kind of um
you know, uh uh
uh
human systems, AI systems,
hybrid hybrid human human
um you know, hybrid hybrid human AI
like, you know, companies or or like or
like or like economic units. So, you
know, we're going to we're going to need
to think about like, you know, how do we
how do we protect the world against, you
know, bioterrorism? How do we protect
the world against like, you know,
against like against like mirror life?
Like, you know, probably probably we're
going to need to, you know, need some
kind of like AI monitoring system that
like monitor, you know, kind of monitors
for for all of these things, but then we
need to build this in a way that like,
you know, preserves civil liberties and
like our constitutional rights. So, I
think just just as is as is anything
else, like it's it's like a new security
landscape with a new set of, you know,
a new set of tools and a new set of
vulnerabilities. And I think my worry is
if we had 100 years for this to happen
all very slowly, we'd get used to it.
You know, like we've gotten used to
like, you know, the presence of, you
know, the presence of explosives in
society or like the, you know, the
presence of various,
um,
you know, like new weapons or the, you
know, the
the presence of video cameras. Um, we
would get used to it over over over over
100 years and we'd develop governance
mechanisms. We'd make our mistakes. My
My worry is just that this happening all
so fast. And so, I think maybe we need
to do our thinking faster about how to
make these governance mechanisms work.
>> Yeah.
It seems like in an offense-dominant
world,
over the course of the next century, so
the idea is that AI is making the
progress that would happen over the next
century happen in some period of 5 to 10
years.
But we would still need the same
mechanisms or balance of power would be
similarly intractable even if humans
were the only game in town.
Um,
and so, I guess we have the advice of
AI. We
If fundamentally it doesn't seem like a
totally different ball game here. If
checks and balances were going to work,
they would work with humans as well. If
they aren't going to work, they won't
work with AIs as well.
Um,
and so, maybe this is just doomed as
human checks and balances as well, but
>> Yeah, again again I think there's some
way to
I think there's some way to make this
happen. Like it you know, it it it it it
it just it just you know, the
governments of the world may have to
work together to make it happen. Like,
you know, we may have to you may have to
talk to AIs about kind of you know,
building societal structures in such a
way that like these these defenses are
possible. I I I don't know. I mean this
is so this is you know, I I don't want
to say so far ahead in time, but like so
far ahead in technological ability that
may happen over a short period of time
that it's hard for us to anticipate it
in advance. Um speaking of governments
getting involved, on December 26th, the
Tennessee legislature introduced a bill
which uh said quote, um it would be an
offense for a person to knowingly train
artificial intelligence to provide
emotional support including through
open-ended conversations with a user.
And of course, one of the things that
Claude attempts to do is be uh a
thoughtful um uh thoughtful friend,
thoughtful knowledgeable friend. And in
general, it seems like we're going to
have this patchwork of state laws. A lot
of the benefits that normal people could
experience as a result of AI are going
to be curtailed, especially when we get
into the kinds of things you discuss in
Machines of Loving Grace, biological
freedom, mental health improvements,
etc. etc. It seems easy to imagine
worlds in which these get whac-a-moled
away by different laws. Um whereas
bills like this don't seem to address
the actual existential threats that
you're concerned about. So, I'm curious
about to understand in the context of
things like this, your Entropic's
position against the federal moratorium
on state AI laws. Yes. So, I don't know.
There's there's many different things
going on at at at once, right? I think I
think that that I think that particular
law is is dumb. Like, you know, I think
it was it was clearly made by
legislators who just probably had little
idea what AI models could do and not do.
They're like, AI models serving as that
that just sounds scary. Like, I don't
want I don't want that to happen. So,
you know, we're we're we're not we're
not in favor of that, right? But but but
that you know, that that wasn't the
thing that was being voted on. The thing
that was being voted on is
we're going to ban all state regulation
of AI for 10 years with no apparent plan
to to do any federal regulation of AI,
which would take Congress to pass, which
is a very high bar. Um so, you know, the
idea that we'd ban states from doing
anything for 10 years
and people said they had a plan for
federal government, but you know, there
was no actual there was no proposal on
the table. There was no actual attempt.
Um
given the serious dangers that I lay out
in adolescence of technology around
things like the you know, kind of
biological weapons and bioterrorism,
autonomy risk
and the timelines we've been talking
about, like 10 years is an eternity.
Like that's that's a that's a I I think
that's a crazy thing to do. So, if if
that's the choice, if that's what you
force us to choose, then then we're
going to we're going to choose not to
have that moratorium. And you know, I I
think the the the benefits of that
position exceed the costs, but it's it's
not a perfect position if that's the
choice. Now, I think the thing that we
should do, the thing that I would
support is the federal government should
step in, not saying states you can't
regulate, but here's what we're going to
do and and states you can't differ from
this, right? Like I think preemption is
fine in the sense of saying that federal
government says, here is our standard,
this applies to everyone, states can't
do something different. That would be
something I would support if it would be
done in the
way. What um
But, but this idea of states you can't
do anything and we're not doing anything
either, that that struck that struck us
as, you know, very much not making sense
and I think will not age well, was
already starting to not age well with
with all the um
backlash that that you've seen. Now, in
terms of in terms of what we would want,
I mean, you know, the things we've
talked about are are starting with
transparency standards. um
uh you know, in order to monitor some of
these autonomy risks and bioterrorism
risks. As the risks become more serious,
um as we as we get more evidence for
them, then I think we could be more
aggressive in some targeted ways and and
say, "Hey, AI bioterrorism is really a
threat. Let's Let's pass a law that kind
of forces people to have classifiers."
And I could even imagine it it depends
it depends how serious a threat it ends
up being. We don't know for sure. Then
we need to pursue this in an
intellectually honest way where we say
ahead of time, the risk has not emerged
yet. But I could certainly imagine with
the pace that things are going that, you
know, I could imagine a world where
later this year we say, "Hey, this this
AI bioterrorism stuff is really serious.
We should do something about it. We
should put it in the federal We should,
you know, put it in a federal standard.
And if the federal government won't act,
we should put it in a state state
standard." I could totally see that. I
I'm concerned about a world where
if you just consider the the pace of
progress you're expecting, the life
cycle of of legislation, you know, the
the benefits are, as you say, because of
diffusion lag, the benefits are slow
enough that I really do think this
patchwork of on the current trajectory,
this patchwork of state laws would
prohibit I mean, having an emotional
chatbot friend is something that freaks
people out, then just imagine the kinds
of actual benefits from AI we want
normal people to be able to experience
from improvements in health and health
span and improvements in mental health
and so forth. Whereas at the same time,
uh it seems like you think the dangers
are already on the horizon. And I just
don't see that much
um
it seems like it would be especially
injurious to the benefits of AI
uh as compared to the the dangers of AI.
And so that that that's maybe the where
the cost-benefit makes less sense to me.
So so so there's a few things here,
right? I mean, people talk about there
being thousands of these state laws.
First of all, the vast vast majority of
them do not pass. Um and you know, the
the the the you know, the world works a
certain way in theory, but like just
because a law's been passed doesn't mean
it's really enforced, right? The people
the people, you know, implementing it
may be like, "Oh my god, this is stupid.
It would mean shutting off like, you
know,
everything that's ever been built and
everything that's ever been built in
Tennessee." So, you know, very often
laws are interpreted in like, you know,
a way that makes them that that that
makes them not as dangerous or not as
harmful on on the same side. Of course,
you have to worry if you're passing a
law to stop a bad thing, you have this
you have this problem as well. Um,
look, my my look, I mean, my basic view
is, you know, if if if, you know, we
could decide, you know, what laws were
passed and how things were done, which,
you know,
we're only one small input input into
that, you know, I would
deregulate a lot of the stuff around the
health benefits of AI. Um, I think you
know, I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I
greatly accelerate
um the rate at which we discover drugs
and just the the pipeline will get
jammed up. Like the pipeline will not be
prepared to like process all all of the
stuff that's going through it. So, um
you know, I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I I I I I I I I I I regulatory process
to bias more towards we have a lot of
things coming where the safety and the
efficacy is actually going to be
really crisp and clear. Like I mean, a
beautiful thing. Really really crisp and
clear and like really really effective,
but, you know, and and and maybe we
don't need all this all this um
like
all this super structure around it that
was designed around an era of drugs that
barely work and often have serious side
effects.
But at the same time, I think we should
be ramping up quite significantly
the
uh, know, this this kind of safety and
security legislation. And, you know,
like I've said,
um, you know, starting with transparency
is is my view of trying not to hamper
the industry, right? Trying to find the
right balance. I'm worried about it.
Some people criticize my essay for
saying, "That's too slow. The dangers of
AI will come too soon if we do that."
Well, basically, I kind of think like
the last 6 months and maybe the next few
months are going to be about
transparency and then
if these if these risks emerge when
we're more certain of them, which I
think we might be as soon as as later
this year, then I think we need to act
very fast in the areas that we've
actually seen the risk. Like, I think
the only way to do this is to be nimble.
Now, the legislative process is normally
not nimble, but we we need to
emphasize to everyone involved the
urgency of this. That's why I'm sending
this message of urgency, right? That's
why I wrote Adolescence of Technology. I
wanted policy makers to read it. I
wanted economists to read it. I want
national security professionals to read
it. You know, I want decision makers to
read it so that they have some hope of
acting faster than they would have
otherwise.
Is there anything you can do or advocate
that would
make it's more certain that the benefits
of AI are um
are better instantiated where I feel
like you have worked with legislatures
to be like, okay, we're going to prevent
bioterrorism here. We're going to
increase transparency. We're going to
increase whistleblower protection. And I
just think by default, the actual like
the things we're looking forward to here
it just seems very easy. They seem very
fragile to uh different kinds of moral
panics or political economy problems.
>> Yeah, I don't actually So, so I don't
actually agree that much in the
developed world. I feel like you know,
in the developed world like markets
function pretty well and when there's
when there's like a lot of money to be
made on something and it's clearly the
best available alternative, it's
actually hard for the regulatory system
to stop it. You know, we're we're seeing
that in AI itself, right? I you know,
like I think I've been trying to fight
for is export controls on chips to
China, right? And like that's in the
national security interests of the US.
Like, you know, that's like square
within the you know, the the policy
beliefs of you know, every almost
everyone in Congress of both parties.
But
and you know, I think the case is very
clear. The counterarguments against it
are
I'll politely call them fishy. Um,
uh and yet it doesn't happen and we sell
the chips because there's there's so
much money. There's so much money riding
on it. Um, and you know, the the that
money wants to be made and and in that
case, in my opinion, that's a bad thing.
Um, and but but it also it also applies
when when it's a good thing. And and so
I I don't think that if we're talking
about drugs and benefits of the
technology, I I I I am not as worried
about those benefits being hampered in
the developed world. I am a little
worried about them going too slow. And I
as I said, I do think we should work to
speed the approval process in the FDA. I
do think we should fight against these
chatbot bills that you're describing,
right? Described individually, I'm
against them. I think they're stupid.
Um, but I actually think the bigger
worry is the developing world. Um, where
we don't have functioning markets, where
um, you know, we often can't build on
the technology that that we've had. I
worry more that those folks will get
left behind. And I worry that even if
the cures are developed, you know, maybe
there's someone in rural Mississippi who
who doesn't get it as well, right?
That's a That's a That's a kind of
smaller version of the thing the concern
we have in the in the developing world.
And so the things we've been doing are,
you know, you know, we work with, you
know, we work with, you know,
philanthropists, right? You know, we
work with folks um
who you know, who you know, deliver, you
know, medicine and health interventions
to, you know, to to developing world, to
sub-Saharan Africa, you know, India,
Latin America, you know,
you know, other other developing parts
of the world. That's the thing I think
that won't happen on its own. Mhm. You
mentioned export controls. Yeah. Why
can't US and China both have a country
of geniuses on a data center?
>> Why can't, you know, why won't it happen
or why shouldn't No, like why why
shouldn't it happen? Why shouldn't it
happen? Um you know, I think I think if
this does happen,
um you know, then then we kind of have a
Well, we could have a few situa- If we
have like an offense-dominant situation,
we could have a situation like nuclear
weapons, but like more dangerous, right?
Where it's like um you know, kind of
kind of either side could could easily
destroy everything. Um we could also
have a world where it's kind of it's
unstable. Like nuclear equilibrium is
stable, right? Because it's you know,
it's like deterrents. But let's say
there were uncertainty about like if the
two AIs fought, which AI would win. Um
that could create instability, right?
You often have conflict when the two
sides have a different assessment of
their likelihood of winning, right? If
one side is like, "Oh, yeah, there's a
90% chance I'll win." And the other
side's like, "There's a 90% chance I'll
win." Then then then a fight is much
more likely. Um they can't both be
right, but they can both think that. But
this is like a fully general argument
against the diffusion of AI technology,
which it may which is that's an
implication of this world.
>> eventually. The other concern I have is
that people the governments will oppress
their own people with AI. And and and
so, um
you know, I'm I'm just I'm worried about
some world where you have a country
that's already a you know, kind of a
uh you know, uh
you know, there's there's a government
that kind of kind of already
um you know, is is kind of kind of
building a you know, a tech a high-tech
authoritarian state. Um, and to be
clear, this is about the government.
This is not about the people. Like,
people We need to find a way for people
everywhere to benefit. Um, my worry here
is about governments. Um, so, yeah, my,
you know, my my worry is that the world
gets carved up into two pieces. One of
those two pieces could be authoritarian
or totalitarian in a way that's very
difficult to displace. Um, now, will
will governments eventually get powerful
AI and and, you know, there's risk of
authoritarianism? Yes, will governments
eventually get powerful AI and there's
risk of, um,
uh, you know, of of kind of bad bad bad
equilibria? Yes, I think both things.
But, the initial conditions matter,
right? You know, at some point we're
need we're going to need to set up the
rules of the road. I'm not saying that
one country, either the United States or
a coalition of democracies, which I
think is a would be a better setup,
although it requires more international
cooperation than we currently seem to
want to make. Um, but, you know, I don't
I don't think a coalition of democracies
or or certainly one country should just
say, "These are the rules of the road."
There's going to be some negotiation,
right? The world is going to have to
grapple with this. And what I would like
is that the the the you know, the
democratic nations of the world, those
with, you know, who are close whose
governments have represent closer to
pro-human values are are holding the
stronger hand then, have have more
leverage when the rules of the road are
set. And and so, I'm I'm very concerned
about that initial condition. I um, I
was re-listening to an interview from 3
years ago, and one of the ways it aged
poorly is that I kept asking questions
assuming there was going to be some key
fulcrum moment in 2 or 3 years from now,
when in fact, being that far out, it
just seems like progress continues, AI
improves, AI is more diffuse, and people
use it for more things. It seems like
you're imagining a world in the future
where the countries get together, and
here's Here's rules of the road, and
here's the leverage we have, here's the
leverage you have. When it seems like on
current trajectory, everybody will have
more AI.
Some of that AI will be used by
authoritarian countries, some of that
within the authoritarian countries will
be by private actors versus state
actors. It's not clear who will benefit
more. It's always unpredictable to tell
tell in advance. You know, it seems like
the internet privileged authoritarian
countries more than you would have
expected.
And maybe the AI will be the opposite
way around.
So, I I I want to better understand what
you're imagining here.
>> Yeah, yeah. So, so just to be precise
about it, I think the exponential of the
underlying technology will continue as
it has before, right? The models get
smarter and smarter, even when they get
to country of geniuses in the data
center,
you know,
I think you can continue to make the
model smarter. There's a question of
like
getting diminishing returns on their
value in the world, right? How much does
it matter after you've already solved
human biology or, you know,
you know, at some point you can do
harder math, you can do more abstruse
math problems, but nothing after that
matters. But putting that aside, I do
think the the exponential will continue,
but there will be certain distinguished
points on the exponential and
companies, individuals, countries will
reach those points at different times.
And and so, you know, there's there's
you know, could there be some you know,
I you know, I talk about is a nuclear
deterrent still in adolescence of
technology is a nuclear deterrent still
stable
in the world of of of AI. I don't know,
but that's that's an example of like one
thing we've taken for granted that like
the technology could reach such a level
that it's no longer like you know, we
can no longer be certain of it at least.
You know, think of think of others, you
know, there there there you know, there
there kind of points where if you if you
reach a certain point, you maybe you
have offensive cyber dominance and like
every every computer system is
transparent to you after that. I
unless the other side has has a kind of
equivalent defense. So, I don't know
what the critical moment is or if
there's a single critical moment, but I
think there will be either a critical
moment, a small number of critical
moments, or some critical window where
it's like AI is AI confers some large
advantage from the perspective of
national security and one country or
coalition has reached it before others.
That that you know that that that you
know I'm not advocating that they're
just like okay we're in charge now or
that's not that's not how that's not how
I think about it. You know that there's
always the the other side is catching
up. There's extreme actions you're not
willing to take and and and it's not
right to take you know to take complete
um
to take complete control anyway, but but
at at the point that that happens I
think people are going to understand
that the world has changed and there
there's going to be some
negotiation implicit or implicit about
what what is the what is the post AI
world order look like and and I think my
interest is in
you know making that
negotiation
be one in which
you know
classical liberal democracy has you know
has a strong hand. Well well I don't
understand what that better means cuz
you say in the essay quote autocracy is
simply not a form of government that
people can accept in the post powerfully
AI age and that sounds like you're
saying the CCP as an institution cannot
exist after we get AGI um
and that seems like
a like a very strong demand and it seems
to imply a world where the leading lab
or the leading country
will be able to and by that language
should get to determine how the world is
governed or what kinds of governments
are allowed and not allowed. Yeah, so
when I when I I believe that paragraph
was I think I said something like you
could take it even further and say X. So
I wasn't I wasn't necessarily endorsing
that that that I wasn't necessarily
endorsing that view. I you know, I was
saying like here's a first, you know,
here here's a weaker thing that I
believe but you know, I think I you
know, I think I said, you know, we have
to worry a lot about authoritarians and
you know, we should try and you know,
kind of kind of check them and limit
their power like you could take this
kind of further much more
interventionist view that says like
authoritarian countries with AI are
these you know, the the the you know,
the these kind of self-fulfilling cycles
that that you can't that are very hard
to displace and so you just need to get
rid of them from from the beginning.
That that has exactly all the problems
you say which is you know,
you know, if you were to make a
commitment to overthrowing every
authoritarian country. I mean, they then
they would take a bunch of actions now
that like Right. you know, that that
that could could lead to instability. So
that that may or you know, that that
that just that just may not be possible.
But the point I was making that I do
endorse is that it is it is quite
possible that you know, today you know,
the view or at least my view or the view
in most of the Western world is is
democracy is a better form of government
than authoritarianism. But it's not like
if a country's authoritarian
we don't react the way we reacted if
they committed a genocide or something,
right? And and I'm I guess what I'm
saying is I'm a little worried that in
the age of AGI authoritarianism will
have a different meaning. It will be a
graver thing. Um and and we have to
decide one way or another how to how how
how
how how how how how to deal with that.
And the interventionist view is one
possible view. I was exploring such
views. Um you know,
it may end up being the right view. It
it may end up being too extreme to be
the right view. But I do have hope. And
one piece of hope I have is
there there is we have seen that as new
technologies are invented
forms of government become obsolete. I I
mentioned this in adolescence of
technology where I said, you know, like
feudalism was basically, you know, like
a form of government, right? And and
then when when we invented
industrialization
feudalism was no longer sustainable, no
longer made sense. Why is that hope? Why
couldn't that imply that democracy is no
longer going to be a competitive system?
>> It could right. It could go It could go
either way, right? But but I actually so
I these problems with
authoritarianism, right? That the
problems of authoritarianism get deeper.
I just I wonder if that's an indicator
of other problems that authoritarianism
will have, right? In other words, people
become because authoritarianism becomes
worse, people are more afraid of
authoritarianism. They work harder to
stop it. It's it's more of a like you
have to think in terms of total
equilibrium, right? Um I just wonder if
it will motivate new ways of thinking
about with the with with the new
technology how to preserve and protect
freedom. And and even more
optimistically will it lead to a
collective reckoning and you know,
a kind of
a more emphatic realization of how
important some of the things we take as
individual rights are, right? A more
emphatic realization that we just we
really can't give these away. There's
there we've seen there's no other way to
live that actually works. Um I I I am
actually I am actually hopeful that I I
guess one way to say it it sounds too
idealistic, but I actually believe it
could be the case is is that is that
dictatorships become morally obsolete.
They become morally unworkable forms of
government. Um and that and that and
that the the the the crisis that that
creates is is is sufficient to force us
to find another way. Um
I I think there is genuinely a tough
question here, which I'm not sure how
you resolve. Uh for and we've had to
come out one way or another on it
through history, right? So, with China
in the '70s and '80s, we decided, "Even
though it's an authoritarian system, we
will engage with it." And I think in
retrospect that was the right call
because it a state authoritarian system,
but a billion plus people are much
wealthier and better off than they would
have otherwise been. Um and it's not
clear that it would have stopped being
an authoritarian country otherwise. You
can just look at North Korea uh as an
example of that, right? And I don't know
if that takes that much that much
intelligence to remain an authoritarian
country that continues to coalesce its
own power. And you can just imagine a
North Korea with an AI that's much worse
than everybody else's, but still enough
to keep power. And I I and and and and
so in general, it seems like
should we just have this attitude of the
benefits of AI will, in the form of all
these empowerments of humanity and
health and so forth, will be big. And in
historically we have decided it's good
to spread the benefits of technology
widely, even with even to people whose
governments are authoritarian. And I
think I guess it is a tough question how
to think about it with AI, but um
historically we have said yes, this is a
positive sum world, and it's still worth
diffusing the technology. Yeah, so so
there are a number of choices we have. I
you know, I think framing this as a kind
of government-to-government decision and
you know, in in national security terms,
that's like one lens, but there are a
lot of other lenses. Like you could
imagine a world where, you know, we
produce all these cures to diseases and
like the you know, the the the cures to
diseases are fine to sell to
authoritarian countries, the data
centers just aren't, right? The chips in
the data centers just aren't. Um and and
that the AI industry itself. Um you
know, like like another possibility is
and and I think folks should think about
this like, you know, could there be
developments we can make either that
naturally happen as a result of AI or
that we could make happen by building
technology on AI. Could we create an
equilibrium where where it becomes
infeasible for authoritarian countries
to deny their people kind of private use
of the benefits of the technology. Um,
you know, are there are there are there
are there equilibria where we can kind
of give everyone in an authoritarian
country their own AI model that kind of
you know, you know, like defends
themselves from surveillance and there
isn't a way for the authoritarian
country to like crack crack down on this
while while retaining power. I don't
know. That that sounds to me like if
that went far enough it would be it
would be a reason why authoritarian
countries would disintegrate from the
inside. Um, but but maybe there's a
middle world where like there there's an
equilibrium where if they want to hold
on to power the authoritarians can't
deny kind of individualized access
access to the technology. But I actually
do have a hope for the for the
for the for the more radical version
which is, you know, is it possible that
the technology might inherently have
properties or that by building on it in
certain ways we could create properties
that that that that have this kind of
dissolving effect on authoritarian
structures. Now, we we hoped originally,
right? If we think about back to the
beginning of the Obama administration,
we thought originally that that, you
know, social media and and the internet
would have that property and turns out
not to. But but I don't know. What what
if we could
what if we could try again with with the
knowledge of how many things could go
wrong and that this is a different
technology. I don't know that it would
work but it's worth a try. Yeah. I I
think it's just I
it's very unpredictable. Like there's
first principles reasons why
authoritarians might develop AI.
>> very unpredictable. I don't think I mean
we got it we we just got to we kind of
we got to recognize the problem and then
we got to come up with 10 things we can
try and we got to try those and then
assess whether they're working or which
ones are working if any and and then try
new ones if the old ones aren't working.
>> what I'm getting at today as you say
we will not sell data centers or sorry
uh chips and then the ability to make
chips in China.
And so in some sense you are denying
there would be some benefits to That's
right.
>> the Chinese economy, Chinese people,
etc. because we're doing that. And then
there'd also be benefits to the American
economy because it's a positive sum
world. We could trade. They could have
their country doing data centers doing
one thing. We could have ours doing
another. And already we you're saying
it's not worth that
positive sum uh stipend to empower this
country that What I would say is that
you know we are we are about to be in a
world where growth and economic value
will come very easily. If right if we're
able to build these powerful AI models,
growth and economic value will come very
easily. What will not come easily is
distribution of benefits, distribution
of wealth, political freedom,
um you know, these are the things that
are going to be hard to achieve. And so
when I think about policy, I think I
think that the technology and the market
will deliver all the fundamental
benefits, you know, almost almost faster
than we can take them. Um
uh and and that these questions about
about distribution and political freedom
and rights are are are the ones that
that will actually matter and that
policy should focus on. Okay, so
speaking of distribution as you're
mentioning, we have developing countries
and um
in many cases catch-up growth has been
weaker than we would have hoped for. But
when catch-up growth does happen, it's
fundamentally because they have
underutilized labor. You know, we can
bring the capital and know-how from
developed countries to these countries
and then they can grow quite rapidly.
>> Yes. Obviously in a world where labor is
no longer the constraining factor, this
mechanism no longer works.
And so is the hope basically to rely on
philanthropy from the people who
immediately get wealthy from AI or from
the countries that get wealthy from
create AI. What is what is the hope for?
>> I mean philanthropy should obviously
play some role as it has the
you know as it has as it has in the
past, but I think growth is always
growth is always better and stronger if
we can make it endogenous. So, you know,
what are the relevant industries in like
in like in like in like an AI driven
world? Look, there's lots of stuff, you
know, like there's you know, I said I
said we shouldn't build data centers in
China, but there's no reason we
shouldn't build data centers in Africa,
right? In fact, I think it'd be great to
build data centers in Africa. You know,
as long as they're not owned by China we
should build we should build data
centers in Africa. I think that's a
that's that's a I think that's a great
thing to do.
You know, we should also build you know,
there's no reason we can't build you
know, a pharmaceutical industry that's
like AI driven. Like, you know, the the
if if AI is accelerating accelerating
drug discovery, then you know, there
will be a bunch of biotech startups.
Like, let's make sure some of those
happen in the developing world and
certainly during the transition and we
can talk about the point where humans
have no role, but but humans will have
still have some role in starting up
these companies and supervising
supervising the AI models. So, let's
make sure some of those humans are
humans in the developing world so that
fast growth can happen there as well.
Mhm. You guys recently announced Quad is
going to have a constitution that's
aligned to a set of values and not
necessarily just to the end user.
And there's a world I could imagine
where if it is aligned to the end user,
it preserves the balance of power we
have in the world today because
everybody gets to have their own AI
that's advocating for them. And so the
ratio of bad actors and good actors
stays constant. It seems to work out for
our world today. Um
why is it better not to do that but to
have a specific set of values that the
AI should carry forward? Uh yeah, so I'm
not sure I'd quite draw the distinction
in that way. There there may be two
relevant distinctions here which are I
think you're talking about a mix of the
two. Like one is should we give the
model a set of instructions about do
this and do versus don't do this.
And the other you know, versus should we
give the model a set of principles for,
you know, for kind of how to act. Um and
and and there it's it's you know, it's
it it it you know, it's it's just it's
it's kind of purely a practical and
empirical thing that we've observed that
by teaching the model principles,
getting it to learn from principles, its
behavior is more consistent, it's easier
to cover edge cases, and the model is
more likely to do what people want it to
do. Another words, if you you know, if
you're like, you know, don't tell people
how to hot-wire a car, don't speak in
Korean, don't you know,
you know, just you know, if you give it
a a list of rules it doesn't really
understand the rules and it's kind of
hard to generalize from them.
Um you know, if if it's just kind of a
like you know, list of do do's and
don'ts, whereas if you give it
principles and then it you know, it has
some hard guardrails like don't make
biological weapons, but overall you're
trying to understand
what it should be aiming to do, how it
should be aiming to operate. So, just
from a practical perspective, that turns
out to be just a more effective way to
train the model. That's one piece of it.
So, that you know, that's the kind of
rules versus principles trade-off. Then
there's another thing you're talking
about, which is kind of like the
corrigibility versus um
like, you know, I would say kind of
intrinsic intrinsic motivation
trade-off, which is like how much should
the model be a kind of
I don't know, like a a skin suit or
something where you know, you you know,
you know, you're just kind of you know,
it it just kind of directly follows the
instructions that are given to it by
whoever is giving it those instructions.
Um versus how much should the model have
an inherent set of values and and go off
and do things on its own. Um and and and
and and there I I would actually say
everything about the model is actually
closer to the direction of of like, you
know, it should mostly do what people
want. It should mostly follow the We're
not trying to build something that like
you know, goes off and runs the world on
its own. We're actually pretty far on
the corrigible side. Now now what we do
say is there are certain things that the
model won't do, right? That it's like,
you know, that that that I think we say
it in various ways in the constitution
that under normal circumstances if
someone asked the model to do a task it
should do that task. That that should be
the default. Um but if you've asked it
to [snorts] do something dangerous or if
you've, you know, if you've um asked it
to um
you know, uh
uh to kind of harm someone else, um then
the model is unwilling to do that. So I
I actually think of it as like a mostly
a mostly corrigible model that has some
limits, but those limits are based on
principles. Yeah, I mean then the
fundamental question is how are those
principles determined? And this is not a
special question for Anthropic, this
would be a question for any AI company,
but um
uh because you have been the ones to
actually write down the principles, I
get to ask you this question. Uh
normally a constitution is like you
write it down, it's set in stone, and
there's a process of updating it, and
changing it and so forth. In this case
it seems like a document that people in
Anthropic write that can be changed at
any time that guides the behavior of
systems that are going to be
the basis of a lot of economic activity.
What is the
how do you think about
how those principles should be set? Yes.
Um so I think there's there's two
there's maybe three
three kind of sizes of loop here, right?
Three three ways to iterate. One is you
can iterate we iterate within Anthropic,
we train the model, we're not happy with
it, and we kind of change the
constitution. And I think that's good to
do. Um and you know, putting out
publicly, you know, making updates to
the constitution every once in a while
saying here's a new constitution. Right.
I think that's good to do cuz people can
comment on it. The second level of loop
is different companies will have
different constitutions. Um and you
know, I think it's useful for like
Anthropic puts out a constitution and
you know
you know the Gemini model puts out a
constitution and you know other
companies put out a constitution and
then they can kind of look at them,
compare, outside observers can critique
and say this this I like this one this
thing from this constitution and this
thing for that constitution and and then
kind of that that creates some kind of
you know soft incentive and feedback for
all the companies to like take the best
of each elements and improve. Then I
think there's a third loop which is you
know society beyond the AI companies and
beyond just those who kind of you know
who who comment on the constitutions
without hard power and and there you
know we've done some experiments like
you know a couple years ago we did an
experiment with I think it was called
the collective intelligence project to
like um you know to to basically poll
people and ask them what should be in
our AI constitution. Um and and you know
I think at the time we incorporated some
of those changes and so you could
imagine with the new approach we've
taken to the constitution doing
something like that. It's a little
harder because it's like that was
actually an easier approach to take when
the constitution was like a list of do's
and don'ts. Um at the level of
principles it has to have a certain
amount of coherence. Um but but you
could you could still imagine getting
views from a wide variety of people and
I think you could also imagine and this
is like a crazy idea but hey you know
this whole interview is about crazy
ideas right? So Um uh you know you could
even imagine systems of of kind of
representative government having having
input right? Like you know I wouldn't I
wouldn't do this today because the
legislative process is so slow like this
is exactly why I think we should be
careful about the legislative process in
AI regulation but there's no reason you
couldn't in principle say like you know
all AI you know all AI models have to
have a constitution that starts with
like
these things and then like you can
append you can append other things after
it but like there has to be this special
section that like takes precedence. I
wouldn't do that That's too rigid. That
that sounds
um you know, that that that that sounds
kind of overly prescriptive in a way
that I think overly aggressive
legislation is. But like that is a thing
you could that you know, like like that
is a that is a thing you could try to
do. Is is there some
much less heavy-handed version of that?
Maybe. I really like control loop two
where obviously this is not how
constitutions of actual governments do
or should work where
there's not this vague sense in which
the Supreme Court will feel out what how
people are feeling and what are the
vibes and then update the update the
constitution accordingly. So there's
with actual governments there's a more
procedural
process. Yeah, exactly. But you actually
have a vision
of competition between constitutions
which is actually very reminiscent of
how
some libertarian charter cities people
used to talk about an archipelago of
different kinds of governments could
look like and then there'd be selection
among them of who could operate the most
effectively in which place people would
be the happiest. And in a sense you're
actually
yeah, there's this vision
>> I'm kind of recreating that.
>> Yeah, yeah. Like the this like utopia of
archipelagoes, you know.
>> again you know, I think I think that
vision has has you know, it things to
recommend it and things that things that
things that will kind of kind of go
wrong with it. You know, I think I think
it's a I think it's an interesting and
some ways compelling vision but also
things will go wrong with it that you
hadn't that you hadn't imagined. So you
know, I I I like loop two as well. But I
I I feel like the whole thing has got to
be some some mix of loops one, two, and
three and it's a it's a matter of the
proportions, right? I I think that's got
to be the the answer. Um
when somebody eventually writes the
equivalent of the making of the atomic
bomb for this era, what is the thing
that will be hardest to glean from the
historical record that they're most
likely to miss?
I think a few things. One is at every
moment of this exponential, the extent
to which the world outside it didn't
understand it. This is This is a bias
that's often present in history where
anything that actually happened looks
inevitable in retrospect. And And so,
you know, I I think when people
when people look back, it will be hard
for them to put themselves in the place
of people who were actually making a bet
on this thing to happen that wasn't
inevitable, that we had these arguments,
like the arguments that you know that I
make for scaling or that continual
learning will be solved. Um uh uh you
know, that that you know, some of us
internally in our heads put a high
probability on this happening, but but
it's like there's there's a world
outside us that's not that's not acting
on that's not kind of not acting on that
at all. Um
uh and and and I think I think the the
weirdness of it um I I I I think
unfortunately like the insularity of it,
like, you know,
if if we're 1 year or 2 years away from
it happening, like the average person on
the street has no idea. And that's one
of the things I'm trying to change, like
with the memos, with talking to policy
makers, but like I don't know. I think I
I I think that's just a That's just like
a crazy
That's just like a crazy thing. Yeah. Um
Finally, I would say and and this
probably applies to almost all
historical moments of crisis.
Um how absolutely fast it was happening,
how everything was happening all at
once. And so, decisions that you might
think you know, were kind of carefully
calculated, well, actually, you have to
make that decision and then you have to
make 30 other decisions on the on the
same day because it's all happening so
fast. And And you don't even know which
decisions are going to turn out to be
consequential. So, you know, one of my
one of my I guess worries, although it's
also an insight into into
you know, in into kind of what's
happening is that, you know, some very
critical decision will be will be some
decision that, you know, someone just
comes into my office and is like,
"Dario, you have 2 minutes. Like, you
know, should we should we do you know,
should we do thing thing A or thing B on
this like, you know, someone gives me
this random, you know, half-page
half-page memo and is like, should we
should we do A or B?" And I'm like, "I
don't know, I have to eat lunch. Let's
do B." And and then, you know, that ends
up being the most consequential thing
ever. Mhm. So, final question. Uh it
seems like you have
there's not tech CEOs are usually
writing 50-page memos every few months.
And it seems like you have managed to
build a role for yourself and a company
around you which is compatible with this
more intellectual type role of CEO.
And I want to understand
how you construct that and how like how
does that work to be
you just go away for a couple of weeks
and then you tell your company this is
the memo, like here's what we're doing.
It's also reported you write a bunch of
these internally. Yeah, so I mean, for
this particular one, you know, I wrote
it over winter break. Um so, there was
the time, you know, and I was having a
hard time finding the time to actually
find it to actually write it. But, I
actually think about this in a broader
way.
I actually think it relates to the
culture of the company. So, I probably
spend a third, maybe 40% of my time
making sure the culture of Anthropic is
good. As Anthropic has gotten larger,
it's it's gotten harder to just, you
know, get involved in like, you know,
directly involved in like the training
of the models, the launch of the models,
the building of the products. Like, it's
2,500 people. It's like, you know,
there's just, you know, I have certain
instincts, but like there's only, you
know,
it's very difficult to get in to get to
get involved in every single detail, you
know. I like I I try as much as
possible, but one thing that's very
leveraged is making sure Anthropic is a
good place to work, people like working
there, everyone thinks of themselves as
team members, everyone works together
instead of against each other. And you
know, we've seen as some of the other AI
companies have grown without naming any
names, you know, we're starting to see
decoherence and people fighting each
other. And you know, I would argue there
was even a lot of that from the
beginning but but you know, that it's
it's gotten worse but I I think we've
done an extraordinarily good job even if
not perfect of
holding the company together, making
everyone feel the mission that we're
sincere about the mission and that you
know, everyone has faith that everyone
else there is working for the right
reason that we're a team that people
aren't trying to get ahead of each
other's expense or backstab each other
which again can happen a lot at some of
the other places um and and how do you
make that the case? I mean it's a lot of
things, you know, it's me, it's it's
it's Daniela who you know, runs the
company day-to-day, it's the
co-founders, it's the other people we
hire, it's the environment we try to
create but I think an important thing in
the culture is
I some and just you know, the the you
know, the other leaders as well but
especially me have to articulate what
the company is about, why it's doing
what it's doing, what its strategy is,
what its values are, what its mission is
and what it stands for. And um you know,
when you get to 2,500 people you can't
do that person by person. You have to
write or you have to speak to the whole
company. This is why I get up in front
of the whole company every 2 weeks and
speak for an hour. It's actually I mean,
I wouldn't say I write essays
internally. I do two things. One, I
write this thing called a DVQ. Dario
Vision Quest. Um uh uh I wasn't the one
who named it that. That's the name it it
it received and it's one of these names
that I kind of I tried to fight it cuz
it made it sound like I was like going
off and smoking peyote or something. Um
uh but but the name just stuck. Um so I
get up in front of the company
every 2 weeks. I have like a three or
four page document and I just kind of
talk through like three or four
different topics about what's going on
internally, the you know, the the models
we're producing, the products, the
outside industry, the world as a whole
as it relates to AI and geopolitically
in general, you know, just some mix of
that. And I just go through very very
honestly. I just go through and I just I
just say, you know, this is this is what
I'm thinking and this is what Anthropic
leadership is thinking. And then I
answer questions. And and that direct
connection I think has a lot of value
that is hard to achieve when you're
passing things down the chain, you know,
six six levels deep. Um
and you know,
large fraction of the company comes
comes to attend either either in person
or um either in person or virtually. And
it it you know, it really means that you
can communicate a lot. And then the
other thing I do is I just, you know, I
have a channel in Slack where I just
write a bunch of things and comment a
lot. Um and often that's in response to,
you know, just things I'm seeing at the
company or questions people ask or like
you know, we do internal surveys and
there are things people are concerned
about and so I'll write them up. And I'm
like I'm, you know, I'm I'm I'm just I'm
very honest about these things, you
know, I just I just say them very
directly. And the point is to get a
reputation of telling the company the
truth about what's happening. To call
things what they are, to acknowledge
problems, to avoid the sort of corpo
speak, the kind of defensive
communication that often is necessary in
public because, you know, the world is
very large and full of people who are,
you know,
interpreting things in bad faith. Um
but, you know, if you have a company of
people who you trust and we try to hire
people that we trust, then then you
know, you can you can you can you know,
you can you can really just be entirely
unfiltered. Um and uh you know, I think
I think that's an enormous strength of
the company. It makes it a better place
to work. It makes people more, you know,
more than the sum of their parts. It
increases likelihood that we accomplish
the mission cuz everyone is on the same
page about the mission. And everyone is
debating and discussing how to best to
accomplish the mission. Mhm.
Well, in lieu of an external Dario
vision quest, we have this interview.
This this this interview is a little
like that.
Uh this is Inquiring Minds with
Dwarkesh. Thanks for doing it. Yeah,
thank you, Dwarkesh. Hey everybody. I
hope you enjoyed that episode. If you
did, the most helpful thing you can do
is just share it with other people who
you think might enjoy it. It's also
helpful if you leave a rating or a
comment on whatever platform you're
listening on.
If you're interested in sponsoring the
podcast, you can reach out [music] at
dwarkesh.com/advertise.
Otherwise, I'll see you on the next one.